Introduction Welcome to the first expansion compendium for Five Parsecs from Home.This book brings together content from the first three rules expansions – Trailblazer’s Toolkit,Freelancer’s Handbook,and Fixer’s Guidebook – available in print for the first time.This wealth of options and updates for the core rules has been arranged to group Character Options,Game Options,and Scenarios & Settings material together,and includes a combined Index for both the core rules and this compendium. In addition,this volume includes Bug Hunt, a standalone game and a military-themed variant of Five Parsecs from Home,integrated to allow characters to transfer between the games for an expanded game universe. Included for the first time is a nine-page timeline for the shared Five Parsecs from Home universe. In this compendium: Character Options • New crew species – Introducing the Skulkers and the Krag – and discover how to integrate psionics into your compaign. • Psionics – Including powers and effects, advancement,psionic legality,and how to handle enemies with psionics. • New Kit – Including new training options. new Bot upgrades,new ship parts,and psionic equipment. Game Options • Progressive Difficulty – Options to ramp up the challenge of your campaign. • Difficulty Toggles – Numerous options to toggle the exact level of challenge. Introduction • Player vs Player Battles – Face your friend’s crew in a pitched battle. • Expanded Co-op Battles – Two crews can now take on a determined enemy together. • AI Variations – More random AI behaviors on the battlefield. • Enemy Deployment Variables – Set up the enemy in unexpected ways. • Escalating Battles – As a battle progresses, the opposition intensifies. • Elite-level Enemies – Much tougher enemy tables to really make your battles a nail-biter. • No-Mini Combat Resolution – Play Five Parsecs without miniatures or a map. • Expanded Ways to Play – Expanded missions,expanded quest progression, and expanded connections. • Dramatic Combat – Including dramatic weapons. • Sector-based movement – A way to play that utilizes a more free-ranging movement system for most combat scenarios. • Terrain generation – rules allowing you to roll up random table terrain. • Casualty tables – Adding more unpredictability (and longer firefights) to combat. • Detailed post-battle injuries – Offering a more in-depth replacement for the rulebook injury table,with a wider range of results. Scenarios & Settings • Introductory Campaign – A gentle introduction to teach the core game rules a little bit at a time. Introduction • Expanded factions – Building on the Factions idea from the core rulebook appendix and fleshing it out to an entire sub-system,allowing you to get involved with groups and rise in the ranks. • Mission selection – With clarifying notes to keep track of the different mission types now available. • Stealth missions – A new type of scenario based around sneaking and infiltration. • Street Fights – A new scenario type taking place downtown,with all the chaos and confusion that entails.This also includes new enemies to encounter. • Salvage Jobs – A new type of mission. • Fringe World Strife – Add chaos and unpredictability to the worlds of the Fringe. • Loans: Who Do You Owe? – Expanded detail for your ship loans. • Name Generation Tables – Random tables to name things in your campaign. The Path to a Compendium One of the exciting things about developing a game is having one vision of the journey in your head and then,once it is in the hands of the players,seeing them create their own journeys.The expansion material compiled here has always been about creating stepping stones to that journey.Game design is a question of multiple paths with each option taken meaning another not taken.As you read through these pages,you will see paths that were not conceived of at the time,as well as alternate paths to what was done initially. When you bring these to your campaign, they will help form completely new paths and hopefully inspire your own creations as well. It is a core philosophy of mine than an expansion or advanced rule must never be mandatory.Instead they should either add more detail to a particular topic,more options within the game system,or offer new ways of doing things.If you paged through the book before reading this,you already,you probably already have something you’re excited about, so go ahead and start there. Of course, not every option is meant to be used simultaneously: Firstly, some may not suit your current campaign, and secondly such a game would become unwieldy very quickly. As a player, you can pick and choose what to use and when to use it.The material on offer allows you to do so at almost any time, so that you may use one option in your campaign for a while before swapping it for another. As a solo game, the final arbiter on whether to include any given rule is you. Effort has been made to ensure that all the options and advanced rules presented here integrate, so that multiple options can be used without too much difficulty. Included on the next two pages are updated campaign set-up and campaign turn sequences that reference not only the new material, but when to deploy the options, if you choose to. With each expansion I have tried to showcase both more of the world of Five Parsecs but also more of the framework and how it can be changed,tweaked or rearranged.Think of it as a guided tour.I am excited to see where you end up. Feedback If you have questions,need clarification, or would like to make a suggestion, please do not hesitate to get in touch at nordicweaselgames@icloud.com – I am always looking forward to hearing from you.  — Ivan Sorensen 8 GAME OPTions Updated Campaign Set-up Sequence The sequence below includes all officially available options and considerations.It does not list strictly character-based options such as new playable species,equipment,or psionics. 1. Select crew size Decide whether to use: 2. The Introductory Campaign (p.104) 3. Loans: Who Do You Owe? (p.152) 4. The Story Track (core rulebook,p.153) 5. Expanded Factions (p.110) Then select: 6. A victory condition (core rulebook,p.64) 7. A difficulty mode and any Difficulty Toggles (p.32) Then decide whether to use: 8. Progressive Difficulty (p.30) 9. Fringe World Strife (p.148) 10. Dramatic Combat (p.87) 11. Casualty tables (p.99) 12. Detailed Post-battle Injuries (p.101) 13. And finally,establish house rules. The following options also can be applied on a per mission basis,and are listed here for convenience: • AI Variations (p.42) • Enemy Deployment Variables (p.44) • Escalating Battles (p.46) • Elite-level Enemies (p.48) • No-minis Combat Resolution (p.66) • Expanded Missions (p.74) • Expanded Quest Progression (p.78) – Quest only. • Expanded Connections p.80) – Opportunity mission only. • Grid-based Movement (p.90) • Terrain Generation (p.94) CAMPAIGN SEQUENCES 9 GAME Options UPDATED CAMPAIGN TURN SEQUENCE With the new mechanics offered in this book, an updatedTurn Sequence is provided to avoid getting lost.Entries marked in blue are optional. Step 1: Travel 1. Flee invasion (if applicable) 2. Check for Factions fleeing (p.114) – only if invaded 3. Decide whether to travel 4. Starship travel event (if applicable) 5. New world arrival steps (if applicable – see boxout) Step 2: World 1. Upkeep and ship repairs 2. Check for loan enforcement consequences (p.154-6) 3. Assign and resolve crew tasks 4. Determine job offers 5. Assign equipment 6. Resolve any Rumors 7. Choose your battle Step 3: Tabletop battle 1. Determine battle type (Patron,Rival,Quest, Opportunity,Salvage) 2. Check for Connections (core rules p.164,or using Expanded Connection from this book, p.80) – Opportunity mission only 3. Determine deployment conditions (not Salvage) 4. Determine notable sights (not Salvage) 5. Determine the objective (may use Expanded Missions,p.74) 6. Determine the enemy 7. Set up the battlefield (may use Terrain Generation,p.94) 8. Place Points of interest and Salvage (Salvage mission only) Step 4: Post-battle sequence 1. Resolve Rival status 2. Check for illegal Psionic usage (p.21) 3. Resolve Patron status 4. Determine quest progress 5. Get paid 6. Trade Salvage (p.147 – Salvage mission only) 7. Battlefield finds 8. Check for Salvage mission points of interest (p.139 – Salvage mission only) 9. Check for invasion 10. Check for Instability (p.148 – Fringe World Strife option only) 11. Gather the loot 12. Determine injuries and recovery 13. Experience and character upgrades 14. Invest in advanced training 15. Purchase items 16. Roll for a campaign event 17. Roll for a character event 18. Check for Galactic War progress New World Arrival Steps 1. Check for Rivals 2. Dismiss Patrons 3. Check for licensing requirements 4. World traits 5. Check for Instability (p.148 – Fringe World Strife option only) 6. Check for Psionic legality status (p.20) 10 GAME OPTions CHARACTER OPTIONS Character Options 11 Krag 12 Skulkers 14 Psionics 17 New Kit 25 New Training 25 New Bot Upgrades 26 New Ship Parts 27 Psionic Equipment 27 Five Parsecs Minis 28 11 Freelancer News Monthly reports: As Unity extends its reach, diplomatic treaties allow for easy travel by members of minor alien polities.Across the galaxy, Krag and Skulker recruits join the already cosmopolitan galactic community. Krag and Skulker crews provide freelancer crew captains new options while undertaking salvage operations and other high-risk business. Additionally, we are happy to report that, after persistent lobbying, Unity regulators are now allowing trained psionics to perform freelance work. Interested captains should fill out forms B343, B-F343. and A42 (supplemental) to begin the application process. Krag Krag are a species of short, stocky humanoids. After their home-worlds were destroyed in a cataclysmic disaster, many fled, while other survivors have become expert asteroid miners, scraping out a living in the remnants of their home systems. They can be found throughout Fringe Space, either scouring for resources to send back to the Krag diaspora, or opting to abandon their doomed origins and embrace life as distant traders, mercenaries, bounty hunters, colonists, or more. Character Profile Krag characters have the following base profile: REACTIONS 1 SPEED 4” COMBAT SKILL +0 TOUGHNESS 4 SAVVY +0 character options 12 Character Options Special Abilities Krag characters are subject to the following special rules: • Due to their stocky nature, they cannot take Dash moves under any circumstances. • Krag are famously belligerent and prone to getting into fights.When fighting Rivals, Krag may reroll a natural 1 once on either the firing or Brawl dice.The downside is that they often have a long chain of prior enemies. If the character creation rolls generate a Krag with one or more Patrons, you must add one Rival to the list (regardless of the number of Patrons gained). Campaign Considerations • If a random party member gets into a fight or argument, it will always be a Krag if one is present in the crew.Any such event cannot be bypassed or rerolled using Story Points. • Armor acquired from a Trade table roll must be selected by the player to be Krag-armor or not. Krag-armor is designed to fit Krag only, although Skulkers and Engineers can wear both Krag and non-Krag armor without modification. • Armor found from other sources will not fit Krag.Armor can be modified to fit Krag for 2 Credits (and reversed for the same cost), while doing your shopping during Post-battle Step 11: Purchase Items (core rulebook, p.125). Krag Colony Worlds Krag colonies are rare. If you wish to visit one, it will always have the Busy Markets and Vendetta System world traits. Adding Krag colonies to your known worlds list costs 1 Story Point. Once known, you may opt to visit a known Krag colony during the Travel Steps during any campaign turn. Historical Background While technically possessing enough military and economic power to quality as a Major Power on the Galactic scene, the Krag were traditionally content to dominate their own sector of space. Lacking expansionist interests, and with a well-developed economic foundation for mega-corporations, they were well-liked as neighbors, though they have been embroiled in wars with the Manipulators on several occasions, typically over trade rights. It is not generally known what caused the stars in six of of the seven Krag home systems to go super-nova simultaneously.The Krag refuse to speak about it to outsiders, and Precursor predictors have failed to decipher the signs and strands of the cosmic flow.The result, however, was immediate: Overnight, the Krag went from a regional superpower to a species of migrants. Considerable economic aid has been provided to the remaining Krag colonies through both Unity and the Soulless, but reception to new colonization projects has been frosty at best. Roleplaying Krag While Krag belligerence was always a given, losing their home systems brought this to the fore.While Krag are quite loyal to their friends, they often take some convincing to win over. They tend to value level-headed common sense over more philosophical approaches (which infuriates Precursors to no end), and have a fondness for Soulless, finding them easy to get along with.This has given rise to the widespread rumor that the Krag are expert crafters and artisans, though this is an exaggeration. They exhibit the same gender configurations as humans.The species employed extensive bio-engineering for further genetic diversity in the past, but the loss of their homeworlds has also meant a loss of the high-tech 13 Character Options facilities to conduct such engineering at a cultural level.They are known to be very accepting of bio-mods and uplifts such as the Ferals, they have no specific enmity towards bio-mods and uplifts (including Ferals). Krag take to human languages with ease and almost all speak SVIM, the Unity-approved primary language. Many Krag apply for and receive Unity membership. Krag Miniatures There is a growing number of space dwarf ranges available online, though given the variety in miniatures scales, any shorter and stockier figure can be used. Skulkers Skulkers are rodent-like humanoids living at the edge of Unity-controlled space. While they only control a few systems, they have spread far and wide, particularly in the chaotic Fringe sectors. Skulkers are the only organic species known to have absolutely no concept of instinctual prejudice, making them an easy hire for space-faring missions where getting along in confined spaces is required. As their agility and flexibility allows them to squeeze into tight spots, they are popular as engineers and technicians on board starships.While they lack the brute force of the K’Erin, they also make for hardy soldiers, and Skulker gun-slingers, sharp-shooters and scavengers are a common sight in seedy bars on Fringe colonies. Character Profile Skulker characters have the following base profile: REACTIONS 1 SPEED 6” COMBAT SKILL +0 TOUGHNESS 3 SAVVY +1 14 Character Options Special Abilities Skulker characters are subject to the following special rules: • During character creation, any table result of 1D6 Credits grants only 1D3 Credits instead. • During character creation, ignore the first instance in which the Skulker rolls a Rival. If additional Rivals are generated, they apply as normal. • Due to their agility, Skulkers do not suffer movement reductions due to difficult ground and are not subject to ground- based penalties such as mud, slippery ground or similar. • Because of their peculiarly flexible skeletal structure, they can use all armor and equipment designed for playable species without significant adaptation, either by making a hole for their tail or by tucking their tail around their body. • When moving, they may ignore any obstacle up to 1” in height and do not count the first 1” of any climb for movement reduction purposes. • Skulkers have strong biological resistance. If exposed to any poison, toxin, virus, gas, or similar biological hazard, a Skulker may shrug off the effect on a D6 roll of 3+. During continued exposure, the roll must be made every round or for each instance of exposure.This protection applies to all hazards triggered by Points of Interest in a Salvage mission. • Unfortunately, this also applies to any drug they are subjected to, including Booster Pills, Combat Serum, Rage Out, and Still. Stim-packs work just fine, however, as these merely buff a Skulker’s inherent resistances. • Skulkers’ natural hardiness means they respond extremely well to genetic immunization therapies. Campaign Considerations No special rules or exceptions are applied to Skulker characters during the campaign. Skulker Colony Worlds There are relatively few Skulker colonies since travelers tend to just settle in among existing settlements. Skulker home worlds always have the Adventurous population trait, plus a second trait rolled normally.The Alien species restricted world trait is treated as no result. Historical Background The Skulker home worlds are rarely engaged in political conflict due to their isolated nature. They have seen incursions from Converted infiltration forces,but have so far been able to repel them.Due to ongoing worries about a larger-scale attempts,several treaties of mutual assistance have been signed between Skulker worlds and the Precursor and Unity polities. When not pressed with an existential worry, Skulker home worlds attempt to steer a 15 Character Options mostly neutral course, preferring to build friendly relations without direct commitment. As a result, official policy is to encourage widespread migration instead of forceful acquisition or aggressive expansion, which helps avoid territorial conflicts. Roleplaying Skulkers Skulkers exhibit a wide range of behaviors, but are generally viewed as gregarious and easy to get along with.Traveling extensively and rarely attaching significance to a particular world, they view adaptability as a cultural virtue. The Skulker homeworlds are generally considered quite safe,and isolated from galactic threats.This,combined with the rapid physical maturation of the species has given rise to a very large population base. As a result,Skulker society has developed a number of techniques for peaceful resolutions of interpersonal conflicts in order to prevent wide-spread strife and unrest.This has given them a misleading reputation as being forgiving and easy-going: They merely prefer quick,practical answers to conflict, and are adept at compartmentalizing when interacting in a social space,rather than storing up grudges. Philosophical and religious practices vary widely. In accordance with their survival ideals, they tend to view such issues pragmatically, which has given their home worlds a reputation for tolerance. The friendly relationships between Unity and the homeworlds mean Skulkers can achieve Unity membership through a simple application process. Many take advantage of this option, as it eases travel considerably. Skulkers have the same gender configurations as humans, but lack any interest in long term romantic relationships. Liaisons are often brief, typically lasting no longer than two years before the partners drift apart or agree to move on.This tendency tends to carry over to professional commitments as well.A Skulker signing a contract for 4 years or more is viewed as deeply disturbed and a cause for intervention by friends. Suitable Miniatures Any rodent-like humanoid will do, such as rat- or mouse-based miniatures.As selections among sci-fi figure ranges can be limited, converting a fantasy miniature, or doing a head-swap may be in order. Fur and skin coloration can be whatever you like.As well as natural animal colors, cosmetic gene-mods are not unknown for Skulkers, so if you want a space-rat with green fur, go for it! New Primary Alien Table This table replaces the rulebook table if you wish to include the new alien species available in this book: D100 RESULT PRIMARY ALIEN 01-10 Engineer 11-25 Feral 26-40 K’Erin 41-50 Krag 51-65 Precursor 66-80 Skulker 81-90 Soulless 91-100 Swift 16 Character Options The term psionics covers a range of related phenomena that allow mental manipulation of the surrounding world.The Precursors maintain this stems from an innate understanding of the cosmic flow of energy; Swift rely on ritualistic chants that affect the sub-molecular vibrations of the world around them (or so it has been explained); others use drug or technology-enhanced techniques to tap into and project extra- dimensional energy. These energies, regardless of how they are accessed and channeled, can produce startling and tangible effects on their surroundings. Psionics can dramatically change both the tactical environment and feel of the setting. Games using psionics tend to feel more space-fantasy, which might appeal or not, depending on your own preferences.While users of psionics (“Psionics”, capital P) do exist in the Unified Space setting, they are very rare. Even if you prefer the published world, you are fully justified in omitting their usage. Psionics in Your Crew When creating a new crew to begin a campaign, you may pick any one crew figure to be a Psionic, noting any species restrictions given below. Make the determination before rolling up the rest of their profile. In other words, you cannot roll up all of your characters and then choose who is the Psionic. Additionally: • Soulless and any type of Bot can never be a Psionic • De-converted, Hulkers, Genetic Uplifts, and Bio-upgrades can never be a Psionic. Once you have begun a campaign, any time you acquire a new recruit, you may opt to pay 1 Story Point or 10 Credits to have them be a Psionic, provided you do not currently have one in your crew. You may never have more than one Psionic as part of your crew at any one time. PSIONICS 17 Character Options Limitations Due to a mixture of physical strain and having to commit time to honing psionic rather than physical skills, Psionics tend to be limited in traditional soldiering qualities: When creating a Psionic character, apply rolled ability score increases as normal. However, once the character is part of the campaign, they are unable to increase Combat Skill any further through Experience Points. Psionics can only ever use weapons that have either the Pistol or Melee traits. Psionics lose their abilities permanently if they are given any type of implant, even if it is later removed. Psionic Power Determination Once a Psionic has been recruited into your crew, determine their powers. Roll D10 twice on the table below to determine their two starting powers. In the event of rolling the same power a second time, choose either the power that is 1 number higher or lower on the table. Precursor characters use the method above, but may trade either of the dice for result 6 (Predict), if desired. D10 ROLL POWER EFFECTS AFFECTS ROBOTIC TARGETS? TARGET SELF? PERSISTS? 1 Barrier Select a target figure.Any ranged hit on the target is negated by the barrier on a D6 roll of 4+. Negated hits do not produce Stun markers. Environmental hazards and Brawling hits are not affected by the barrier, only shooting. Yes Yes Yes 2 Grab Select a target figure.The target may either be pushed 1D6” directly away from or pulled 1D6” directly towards the Psionic. If the target contacts another figure or terrain feature, it halts half an inch short. Characters pulled off a ledge take normal falling damage (see core rules p. 42), but are not prevented from acting this round. Yes No No 3 Lift Select a friendly or neutral* target figure (up to human- sized) and move them 1D6+1” in any direction.The target figure lands safely on the ground, and cannot be placed less than 0.5” from any other figure. *If the intentions of the figure are unknown, they count as ‘neutral’. Yes Yes No 18 Character Options D10 ROLL POWER EFFECTS AFFECTS ROBOTIC TARGETS? TARGET SELF? PERSISTS? 4 Shroud Place a wall of fog entirely within range. The wall is 3” wide, the height of a typical human miniature and 1” thick. The fog can be moved through normally, but blocks all lines of sight. Figures even partially within the fog cannot fire, and count as being in Cover.The psionic fog even blocks the use of psionic abilities. Yes No Yes 5 Enrage This power is only usable on a figure that has not yet acted this round.They immediately move a full move +2” towards the nearest visible opponent, and attempt to engage them in Brawling combat.They are unable to act later in the round. No Yes No 6 Predict When the target character next activates, they may roll twice for any one action they perform and pick the better score. If the action has multiple dice rolled (such as a weapon with multiple shots), roll one additional die, then discard one. No Yes Yes 7 Shock The target receives 1 Stun marker No No No 8 Rejuvenate The target removes 1 Stun marker No Yes No 9 Guide An allied figure may immediately takes one Shot with any non-Area weapon carried.The target of the attack must be visible to the Psionic, but does not have to be in range.This does not prevent them from firing normally this round when activated. No Yes No 10 Psionic Scare Immediately make a Morale check for the target figure, unless they would normally be immune to morale checks. No No No Table Notes: Affects robotic targets: If No, the following targets cannot be selected: War Bots, Security Bots, Soulless Task Force, Tech Zealots, Converted Acquisition, Converted Infiltrators, and Haywire Robots.The Mk II Security Bot and Cyborg Merc personalities are also ‘robotic’ for this definition.Apply common sense if you are using special foes from a scenario or from your own creation. Target self: If marked as Yes, the Psionic may select themselves as a target. Persists: If marked as Yes, the power lasts until the end of the following battle round. 19 Character Options Using Powers When activated, a Psionic may perform a Psionic Action as a bonus Action. Once this is resolved, they may THEN move and perform an Action exactly as any other figure.The sequence cannot be changed, meaning the Psionic must be able to see an intended target when they are activated. A Psionic Action allows the character to select one of their powers.To use it, first select a valid target, and then make a 2D6 Projection roll.The power will project to a range equal to the roll in inches. If the target is within range, the power takes effect immediately. If the power is targeting the Psionic themselves, the power works automatically. If the roll is not high enough to reach the target, the Psionic may choose to Strain themselves: Roll one additional D6, and increase the distance by the score rolled. Straining your mind is dangerous. If the additional D6 result is a 4-5, the Psionic is Stunned, but the power takes effect. If the roll is a 6, the Psionic is Stunned, but the power fails. Swift characters are particularly robust: They will be Stunned on a 5-6, and suffer no other effects. Psionic targets In addition to any restrictions given in the Powers table, targets must be visible to the Psionic. Psionics can see any target in line of sight, even if partially obscured by terrain features and can “see through” friendly and hostile characters on the battlefield.Visibility limitations due to darkness, fog, or similar will inhibit psionic targeting normally. Psionic Advancement In addition to the normal options for advancement (core rules, p.123), Psionic characters have the following additional options for spending Experience Points: Acquire Psionic Power (12 XP) Roll D10 and receive the psionic power indicated. If this indicates a power already known, modify the roll by +/- 1 and receive either power. If you have all three options thus available, you are unable to acquire a new power this campaign turn, but may save the XP for future turns. Power Enhancement (6 XP) Enhance any psionic power of your choice for an additional D6 to the casting roll whenever using that power. Powers can be enhanced in this way by only one D6 per power. Enhanced powers can be boosted by Strain normally. Remember that Psionics cannot raise their Combat Skill through Experience Points. The Legality of Psionics When using Psionic characters in a campaign, World Generation Steps gain an additional step after Travel Step 4: New World Arrival (core rules, p.72): D100 ROLL STATUS EFFECTS 01-25 Outlawed Psionics are illegal 26-55 Highly unusual Psionics will draw attention 56-100 Who cares? Psionics are a common enough sight that they do not result in any unusual effects 20 Character Options If Psionics are Illegal If Psionics are illegal, a Psionic does not run any risk of detection unless they actively use a power during combat. If they do, planetary authorities (or another party interested in suppressing psionic rights) may take action. If a Psionic uses a power during combat, roll D6 during the post-game step ‘1.Resolve Rival Status’, and consult the table below: PSIONIC USAGE PSIONICS DETECTED A character used a psionic power once during the battle 1 A character used psionic powers multiple times 1-2 If the indicated result is rolled, a band of Psi-hunters are now on your tail. Roll D6 again to determine the exact type: 1D6 ROLL RIVALS NOTES 1-2 Bounty Hunters From the Interested Parties subtable (core rules, p.99) 3 Vigilantes From the Interested Parties subtable (core rules, p.99) 4-5 Enforcers From the Hired Muscle subtable (core rules, p.96) 6 Colonial Militia From the Interested Parties subtable (core rules, p.99) Note on your record sheet that these Rivals are Psi-hunters in addition to their normal type. They are subject to the following adjustments: • Seize the Initiative rolls against them must be taken at a -2 modifier. • After generating the number and nature of enemies, add 1 additional Specialist enemy to their force. • Psi-hunters add +1 to their attack roll when shooting at or Brawling with a Psionic character. 21 Character Options If Psionics Draw Attention If you are on a world where “Psionics will draw attention”, there is a chance that psionic usage will result in reinforcements showing up. Every time you use a psionic power, if two or more of the Projection roll dice show 6s , the blast of energy has caused a stir, and the enemy is going to call for reinforcements. Reinforcements will arrive at the end of the next round unless you have cleared the table of opponents by then. Roll three D6 and check each die for a result on the table below: 1D6 ROLL REINFORCEMENTS 1 None 2-5 A basic enemy 6 An enemy Specialist Example: if the result was 1, 2, and 5, the 1 results in no reinforcements, but the 2 and the 5 both result in a basic enemy, so TWO basic enemy show up as reinforcements. Note that it is theoretically possible to roll three 1s for the reinforcements. In this case, while attention was drawn to the battle, potential reinforcements thought better of getting involved. Reinforcements can arrive only once in each battle, and arrive at the center of the enemy table edge. Enemy Psionics If you have chosen to include Psionics in your campaign, you may choose to allow the enemy to include Psionics. If so, determine if an encounter features an enemy Psionic by going through the steps below in sequence: 1. Are you facing a Rogue Psionic from the Unique Individual table? If so, they are automatically a Psionic, with two powers selected from the Enemy Psionic Power table below. General Psionic Note Clever use of psionics can result in all manner of interesting situations. Exercise common judgement and evaluate what the intended purpose of the power is. For example, powers cannot be used to eliminate figures by pushing them off the table. Character Options 2. Are you facing Swift or Precursors? If so, a randomly selected enemy figure is automatically a Psionic with one power randomly determined from the Enemy Psionic Power table below. 3. Are you facing enemies that are Hulkers, any kind of robotic or cyborg type, or from the Roving Threats encounter list? If so, no Psionic will be present. Add 1 additional basic enemy. 4. All other cases: Roll 1D6, with a result of 4+ meaning a randomly selected enemy figure is a Psionic with 1 power selected from the Enemy Psionic Power table below. Note that other than the Rogue Psionic, no other Unique Individual can be a Psionic. The selected figure replaces their normal armaments with a Hand Gun and Blade. If their Toughness would normally be a 4 or lower, raise it by +1, as surviving wild Psionics are usually pretty rough around the edges. All powers are rolled randomly on the table below. If the same power is rolled twice, the Psionic has only a single power. Designer Note: The Psionics you will face off against are usually an extremely dangerous breed, possessing wild and unpredictable powers.They do not use the standard psionic rules, although in a Gamemastered scenario, the GM can decide which version to use for any enemy Psionics. Note that you may opt to only use Psionics in your own crew and not use Psionic enemies (somewhat easier campaign), use enemy Psionics without using them yourself (tougher campaign) or both (the assumption if psionics are in use). Character Options Enemy Psionic Power table D10 ROLL POWER NOTES 1 Assail When the Psionic activates, select the closest crew figure in sight and roll 2D6. If the roll equals or exceeds the distance to the target in inches, the crew figure is pushed directly backwards 1D6” and is Stunned.This may knock them off a ledge or into/through dangerous terrain. 2 Reflect The Psionic receives a 4+ saving throw against any non-Area ranged attack.This save cannot be negated by Piercing weapons. On a 6, the attack is deflected to strike the closest crew figure in sight of the Psionic. 3 Bolster All enemy figures are Fearless. 4 Slow When rolling for initiative at the beginning of the round, one of your dice is automatically set to a 6. Roll the remaining dice normally. 5 Direct When the Psionic activates, the closest allied figure visible to them will immediately fire if capable, receiving their full number of Shots.This does not prevent them from firing during their normal activation. If the Psionic is unable to see any allies, nothing happens. 6 Obscure Shots against the Psionic and any enemy within 4” of the Psionic require a natural 6 to hit. Shooters within 4” of the intended target are not affected by this rule. 7 Dominate When the Psionic activates, the closest crew figure in sight is targeted. The target must roll 1D6+Savvy and score a 5+ to resist. If failed, the crew figure will immediately fire their full number of Shots at their closest visible ally. This does not affect their ability to act normally this round. If no allies are in sight of them, the crew figure is Stunned instead. This power cannot affect Soulless or Bot characters. 8 Crush When the Psionic activates, the closest crew figure in sight takes a +0 Damage hit. If the attack fails to do damage or is stopped by Armor, it does not Stun the target. 9 Paralyze All crew figures assigned a 6 when rolling for initiative cannot take any actions this round, and are struck automatically if engaged in Brawling combat. 10 Psionic Rage All allies of the Psionic (but not the Psionic themselves) reroll 1s when Brawling. Additional Notes: • Enemy Psionics using these rules do not suffer from Strain. • While the Dominate power cannot affect Soulless or Bot characters, all other powers work normally. • If the psionic becomes a casualty, all effects cease immediately. • Powers that take effect upon activation are resolved when the Psionic is selected for activation, but before they have moved or taken any actions. • If using the standard psionic rules for enemies in a scenario, they are treated as player Psionics for all rules purposes. 24 Character Options New Training Any of the following training courses may be taken using the rules in post-battle step 10.Invest in Advanced Training.They are acquired using the same rules as any other Advanced Training. ADVANCED TRAINING NOTES COURSE COST Freelancer certification This counts as a permanent Patron License. 15 Instructor When any figure in the crew applies for future Advanced Training, you do not have to pay the 1 Credit application fee or roll for availability. 10 Survival course If subjected to a trap, hazard, or environmental threat, the character may evade any damage on a D6 roll of 4+.This is in addition to any other defenses or rolls allowed. 10 Fixer When taking a Find a Patron, Recruit, or Track crew action, add +1 to the roll. 15 Tactical course When activated, the character may take their actions before moving. 15 NEW KIT Character Options New Bot Upgrades Any of the following upgrades may be applied to a Bot character for the listed cost during post-battle step 11.Purchase Items. Only one upgrade can be installed per campaign turn. The Bot technician Advanced Training applies to these costs. A Bot character can have one of each upgrade installed over time.They are lost if the character is permanently destroyed (“Killed”), and cannot later be replaced or transferred. Note that Soulless characters cannot use these upgrades, as their physical shells use a different technological base. BOT UPGRADE NOTES UPGRADE COST Built-in weapon Any weapon available may be built into the chassis. This negates the Heavy and Clumsy traits on the weapon. Once built-in, 1 Credit must be spent to revert the weapon to regular usage again. 3 Credits per Shot on weapon profile +1 Credit per point of weapon Damage. Improved armor casing Improve the Bot’s built-in Armor Saving Throw to 5+. 5 Credits Deflection module The Bot’s built-in saving throw becomes both a Screen and Armor, allowing a save to be made as long as the attack does not negate both forms of defense. 8 Credits Jump module The Bot may replace any portion of movement (including Dash movement) by a Jump of equal distance. For example, jumping 3” in any direction would use up 3” of available movement.Jumping does not affect or restrict other actions. 6 Credits Multi-wave scanner Add +1 to all rolls to Seize the Initiative. Cumulative with a party-carried Motion Tracker. 10 Credits Broad spectrum vision The Bot can see through darkness, smoke, fog, gas and other impediments normally, and without penalty. 6 Credits 26 Character Options New Ship Parts Any of the following upgrades may be applied to your starship using the normal rules found on p.60 of the core rules.They are treated the same in all respects as any other component. SHIP COMPONENT NOTES COMPONENT COST Expanded Database Constantly updated database system with AI-assistance in correlating information. When rolling to progress an active Quest (Post-Battle Step 3) add +1 to the roll. 10 Credits Scientific Research System A robust system to gather samples from space debris, analyze them, extrapolate anything of interest, and correlate it to current interests. Whenever you undertake travel to another world, you may roll 1D6: 1-2, Nothing found; 3-4, Research data analyzed (worth 2 Credits); 5-6, add 1 Quest Rumor. 10 Credits COMPONENT MOD NOTES MOD COST Miniaturized components State-of-the-art, light-weight components to maintain fuel efficiency.The component is not counted towards increased fuel costs (core rules, p.61). Once applied to a component, this cannot be removed. Can be retrofitted to an existing component for 8 Credits. Regular cost +5 Credits Psionic Equipment Any of the following items may be purchased for the listed price in Credits during Post-battle Step 11. Purchase Items. ITEM EFFECT ITEM TYPE COST Warding Shrel An odd Precursor device. If the wearer would suffer the effects of psionic Strain, the effect is avoided, and the device shuts down for the rest of the battle. Trying to carry two Shrels will cancel the effects of both, due to a sub-harmonic neurology wave cascade.Very distressing. Utility 10 Credits Psionic Focus A wrist-mounted device that helps channel psionic waves. Add +1” to the range of all powers. Utility 10 Credits Nullification surgery The character permanently loses all psionic abilities. This is non-reversible. (What circumstance could lead to such a choice…?) Implant 3 Credits 27 Character Options K’Erin K’Erin Five Parsecs Minis Terrain Terrain Kokhna’s Arms Kokhna’s Arms Captain Captain Skulker Skulker The Swarm The Swarm Vent Crawlers Vent Crawlers Star Buggy Star Buggy Converted Converted Engineer Engineer Swift Swift Feral Feral Psionic Psionic Unity Agent Unity Agent Old Man Old Man Precursor Precursor Captain (Bust) Captain (Bust) Krag Krag Soulless Soulless 28 Five PARSECs MINIS Five Parsecs from Home is proud to be a minis-agnostic rule set, but if you prefer to use figures specifically designed to replicate the species and enemies of the 5PFH setting, a wide range of official 3D print miniatures, vehicles, and terrain is now available from www.fiveparsecs.com GAME OPTIONS Progressive Difficulty 30 Difficulty Toggles 32 Player vs Player 35 Expanded Co-op Battles 39 AI Variations 42 Enemy Deployment Variables 44 Escalating Battles 46 Elite-Level Enemies 48 No-minis Combat Resolution 66 Expanded Ways to Play 74 Expanded Missions 74 Expanded Quest Progression 78 Expanded Connections 80 Dramatic Combat 87 Dramatic Weapons 88 Grid-based Movement 90 Terrain Generation 94 Terrain Tables 96 Casualties & Injuries 99 Casualty Tables 99 Detailed Post-Battle Injuries 101 29 Progressive Difficulty In the standard campaign,the foes you face are generated randomly and do not generally increase in challenge difficulty.In effect,the rules present the universe such as it is,without factoring in what you are bringing to the battle. With this chapter,you can create a curve similar to a video game,where the challenge increases as you play. Two versions are presented here: one that does not require new rules other than the table below,and one that takes advantage of the new rules in this book.Under both systems,simply tally how many missions you have fought so far and apply the relevant modifications applicable to the current campaign turn. You could combine both systems,but this is likely to be deadly around Campaign Turn 20 or so. Option 1 This option is inspired by Lance McMillan’s post on the Five Parsecs from Home Facebook page.Apply both the highest Respawn and the highest Strength entry that applies to you. For example,if you are in Campaign Turn 10, you would apply both Strength 2 and Respawn 2. If the table has been cleared of enemies,no Respawning enemies can be placed.You win the encounter. CAMPAIGN TURN MODIFICATIONS 4 Respawn 1 – The first basic enemy to be slain is replaced at the end of the round. Replacements arrive from the center of the enemy battlefield edge. 5 Strength 1 – Add 1 additional basic enemy to each encounter 8 Respawn 2 – As Respawn 1,but the first two basic enemies slain are replaced 10 Strength 2 – Add 2 additional basic enemies to each encounter 12 Respawn 3 15 Strength 3 – Add 2 basic enemies and 1 Lieutenant 16 Respawn 4 20 Respawn 5; Strength 4 – Add 2 basic enemies,1 specialist,1 Lieutenant 30 GAME OPTions GAME Options Option 2 Note: In the below table,“elite-level enemies” refers to the new elite-level enemies option on page 48 of this expansion,not the Elite Opposition in the core rulebook. CAMPAIGN TURN MODIFICATIONS 3 Apply the “Strength Adjusted Enemies” difficulty toggle (p.32) 4 Begin using the Deployment Variables chapter (p.44) 5 Apply the “Actually Specialized” and “Better Leadership” difficulty toggles (p.33) 6 Begin using the Escalating Battles chapter (p.46) 8 Apply the “Armored Leaders” and “Veteran” difficulty toggles (p.33) 14 Encounters now use elite-level enemies on a D6 roll of 4+ (see p.48) 16 Encounters now use elite-level enemies on a D6 roll of 3+ (see p.48) 20 Encounters always use elite-level enemies (see p.48) 31 The campaign game in Five Parsecs from Home is built to be unpredictable,but fairly easy-going on the player,both to facilitate shorter campaigns and to avoid crews being ground into the dirt from the start.However, after a while you may find the game getting too easy with an experienced crew,or you may just prefer a tougher game overall.Below are some options you can use to adjust game play to a difficulty that suits your needs. Strength-adjusted Enemies This option is useful if you want to avoid setting up a battle just to fight two witless scummers. Instead of rolling for the number encountered, always assume the enemy rolled equal to the number of crew you brought to the fight.Any bonuses (from enemy numbers,difficulty adjustments,etc.) are added to that number. Example: if your enemy has a +2 Numbers modifier from the enemy tables,and you brought 5 crew,you will face 7 enemies. Slaves to the Star-grind These options are useful if you like the general level of opposition in the game,but you would like money or progression to be a bit tighter.This can better convey the struggle of the scrappy underdogs trying to make it big. You are encouraged to use both options listed below,but they can be used independently. Money is Tight Upkeep costs change to 0 credits for a single crew,1 credit for a crew of 2-4 figures,and +1 credit for each crew member past 4. Taking Find a Patron or Repair Your Kit actions costs 1 credit. You do not receive 1 point of free Hull Point repair each turn.All repairs must be paid for unless granted by a random event or similar. Whenever you would roll 1D6 for credits,roll 1D6-1 instead (minimum score 1).This applies both during character creation and during game play.Any modifiers to the roll are applied normally. Slower Progression The Upgrade Table is adjusted as follows: ABILITY SCORE XP COST MAXIMUM LEVEL Reactions 8 4 Combat Skill 8 +3 Speed 5 8" Savvy 5 +5 Toughness 8 5 Luck 10 3 Difficulty Toggles 32 GAME OPTions Hit Me Harder The following options increase the quality of enemies faced,without increasing the total number of troops to the table.You are encouraged to use all four at the same time, but you may opt to use only one or two. Veteran Select one basic enemy.They are a veteran fighter and will increase their Combat Skill by +1.Make sure you use a miniature you can keep track of. Actually Specialized Enemy specialist figures have a minimum Combat Skill of +1 and Toughness 4.Raise their scores to match if the scores are currently lower. Armored Leaders Lieutenants receive a 5+ Armor Saving Throw. Normal rules apply if they would already receive a Saving Throw. Better Leadership • The base roll to face a Unique Individual is 7+,not 9+. • For enemy types that cannot be accompanied by a Unique Individual,the roll is still made.If it succeeds,a randomly selected enemy figure has their Combat Skill and Toughness both raised by +2 (to a maximum of Combat Skill +4, Toughness 6). GAME Options 34 GAME OPTions Time is Running Out These options help add a bit of urgency to the battle,requiring the player to take a more aggressive approach.The options can be used simultaneously,but this might make some missions very difficult to win. They are Paying us by the Hour • When setting up,roll two D6,pick the highest die and add 4 (for a final total of 5-10). • After the conclusion of this round,the only objectives that can still be achieved are Defend and Fight Off.Using this option,remaining objectives cannot be automatically finished after the enemy is cleared out. Instead,continue gameplay normally until the objectives are completed or the time runs out. There’s Movement all over the Place At the end of each round,including the first, roll 1D6.If the roll is equal to or below the round number that just elapsed,one additional enemy figure shows up.This means that from Round 6 onwards a new enemy will arrive every round. Place the arriving enemy at the center of a random battlefield edge (roll 1D6: 1-2 left edge,3-4 enemy edge,5-6 right edge).The first enemy that arrives is a basic enemy, the second is a specialist,with all remaining reinforcements being basic enemies. Fickle Scans Any Notable Sight that has not been investigated by the end of Round 3 is removed from play. Starting in the Gutter Use these options for the full “zero to hero” experience.You can use one,two,or all three, depending on what fits your story. • When creating your crew,begin with only three Low-Tech Weapons rolls and your choice of a Gear or Gadget roll.You receive any items gained from the character creation tables as normal.You do not receive any free Military/Hi-Tech rolls,and do not receive the normal 1 credit per crew member. • In a campaign with a standard crew size of 6, begin with only 3 crew. • Begin the game without a ship.You’ll have to scrape together the cash to purchase one. See the “Getting a New Ship” section in the core rulebook (p.60). Reduced Lethality Of course,you may also want to make the game less fatal.These options can be used to make the campaign easier overall,or can even be incorporated with the use of many of the options in this chapter. • Before rolling for post-battle injuries,If you have two or more injured characters you may select one to be exempt from rolling. They simply have a complete recovery with no Sick Bay time required.This option can be used for either a biological character or a Soulless or Bot at your discretion. • If only one character is injured,you must suffer the result as normal. 35 GAME Options If you and your friends both have tough crews, maybe it is time to face each other to see who’s top dog! These rules allow you to run the occasional player versus player battle and integrate it into your campaigns as part of your on- going adventures.It is not intended as a full “warband campaign” system where multiple players are fighting for dominance,though you could no doubt use it as a starting point.We will refer to player versus player battles as PvP in this section. Setting up a PvP Battle You may agree to a PvP battle at any time.Such encounters may come about for a number of reasons: Pick one that you like,or roll on the table below: D100 ROLL BATTLE REASON 01-25 A chance encounter in the field turns hostile. 26-40 The two crews were hired by opposing sides. 41-50 Both crews have jobs in the same location,but one crew was hired to clear out all contacts. 51-75 A long-standing personal rivalry flares up. 76-85 The crews have jobs in the same location and the objectives interfere with each other. 86-100 Each crew is after the same thing in this location. Player versus player encounters usually take place in a neutral location,meaning not on the world currently visited by either crew. This might be a moon colony,orbital station, starport back alley,abandoned ship,crash site, or research station.The crews are assumed to have arrived by shuttle and no world-specific rules apply for the battle. Of course,players may agree to travel to the same game world from their campaigns.If you are playing Five Parsecs from Home with friends and they agree,you can always opt to visit a world that any of your friends have generated in their campaign. Before the Battle Each crew will go through the normal pre- battle campaign steps on their own,though you should not worry about tracking down Rivals or finding a Patron if you intend to play a PvP battle this campaign turn.Rivals will not interfere in a PvP battle. The number of crew you may bring to the battle is equal to the lowest campaign crew size selected,though players may agree to use more crew,if desired.Bringing 6 crew each tends to produce a more enjoyable battle. PLA YER VS PLA YER Other Resources Story points and “Stars of the Story” options cannot be used in a PvP battle. Note that you can agree to a battle despite not being able to field the full number due to sick-bay. Example: If one campaign uses a crew size of 4 and the other uses a crew size of 6,each player brings 4 crew to the battle,unless we agree otherwise. Initiative In PvP battles,you use initiative points to allow players to push their troops further into the heat of battle.Each player receives 1 initiative point at the start of each round.During the battle,an initiative point can be used to do any of the following during your own action: USE NOTES Fire +1 shot with any weapon and reroll 1s to Hit Spend before rolling to Hit Double Speed for one move Remove all Stun markers from a crew figure Usable only when that figure is selected to act Count a lost brawl as a draw instead Power Ratings To help balance things,we use a new term called Power Rating to quantify how strong each crew is.This is a rough estimation of the relative combat capabilities of the two sides.Each side will determine their Power Rating,counting only figures actually fielded in the battle. FACTOR POWER RATING Per figure fielded +1 Per figure with +2 Combat Skill or above +1 additional Per figure with Rattle Gun or Hyper Blaster +1 additional Per figure with 5+ Saving Throw or better +1 additional Example: A figure with +2 Combat Skill and a Rattle Gun would count for a total of +3 Power Rating on their own. Compare the Power Rating of the two sides and consult the following table to see how many additional initiative points the outgunned side receives at the start of the game. Cinematic Game Option: Players who want a more dramatic battle in can agree to give each side 3 initiative points to start with. GAME OPTions DIFFERENCE INITIATIVE POINTS 1-2 1 3-4 2 5-6 3 7-8 4 9+ 5 Setting up the Battle • Deployment Conditions are not rolled for. • Each player rolls and places a Notable Sight on the table.Note that Priority targets do NOT increase their Toughness upon discovery.Unless agreed upon,Notable Sights can only be obtained by the player that placed them. • Each side determines an objective as normal,using the Opportunity Mission Objectives Table (core rules,p.89). • Players will take it in turns deploying two figures from their crew,starting with the lower initial Power Rating.Determine randomly if ratings were equal. • The roll to Seize the Initiative is made normally but,instead of the normal advantage,a player that passes the roll gains 1 additional initiative point at the beginning of the game.It is possible for both players to succeed. Fight! PvP battles use a modified version of the normal round sequence. • At the beginning of the first round,randomly determine who is the First Player.You can represent this with any token you like.At the end of each round,hand the token over so the other player becomes the First Player. Reaction Roll • The First Player rolls and assigns their dice as normal. • Then the Second Player rolls and assigns their dice. Fast Actions • The First Player must select one or two characters able to act in this phase (based on the Reaction dice they were assigned) and carries out their actions. • The Second Player must select one or two characters able to act,and carries out their actions. • Continue alternating until all eligible characters have acted. Enemy Actions If any AI controlled forces are present,they act normally in this phase. Slow Actions • The First Player must select one or two characters able to act in this phase (based on the Reaction dice they were assigned) and carries out their actions. • The Second Player must select one or two characters able to act,and carries out their actions. • Continue alternating until all eligible characters have acted. 37 GAME Options Ending the Battle • Morale dice are only used for AI controlled forces (if any are present). • At the end of each round,roll 2D6.If the roll is lower than the round number just completed,the battle is over at the end of the following round.Any objectives that were not completed by then will be failed. • Note that players may agree to end the battle at the end of any round,provided no third parties are on the table.Any objectives not completed at that time are failed,and neither side counts as Holding the Field. • Figures can be retreated off the battlefield edge during a battle,as normal. After the Battle • PvP battles never result in Rivals. • Each crew is paid normally.A crew that completed its objectives receives the normal pay bonus for winning a battle. • Battlefield Finds are not available.Each crew receives 1 Loot roll,with a bonus roll awarded to a crew that fought against an enemy with 5+ Power Rating. • Injuries and Experience is handled normally, and crews receive campaign and character events as usual. The Three-way Battle! This system can be used with a neutral third party without too much difficulty,though this works best if you are playing in a considerate and friendly manner when AI questions come up.A third player or GM is ideal for handling the intruders. Roll up the enemy as normal,and deploy them along a neutral battlefield edge.They should not begin within 12” of figures from either crew,and should be placed as evenly as possible. They will act normally,selecting all targets based on their AI.The third party does not distinguish between the two crews,treating them as one force for the purposes of any target selection.As players are likely to gang up on the third party,add +1 basic enemy and +1 specialist to the number normally encountered. The third party is always accompanied by a Unique Individual,unless they are from the Roving Threat Encounter Table. If you would like to randomize the presence of a third party,roll D100 on the table below. While a third-party force is present on the battlefield,players may not agree to end the battle prematurely,though a player could retreat off the battlefield edge as normal. D100 THIRD PARTY 1-40 Deployed on neutral battlefield edge 41-60 As above,but add +1 specialist and +1 Lieutenant 61-70 Deployed within 6" of the center of the battlefield 71-80 Arrives at the start of Round 3 from a randomly selected neutral battlefield edge 81-90 At the start of the game,roll 1D6.At the beginning of the round equal to the die roll, the enemy arrives from a randomly selected neutral battlefield edge. 91-100 Deployed on neutral battlefield edge.At the start of Round 3,1D6 additional basic enemies arrive from the same battlefield edge.If 5-6 arrive,one will be a specialist. 38 GAME OPTions The Job A co-op battle allows two crews to team up on the an epic mission against strengthened opposition. Such missions are usually Opportunity or Invasion battles, though see the options for Rivals below. Patron and Quest missions are specific to a single crew and cannot be played as co-op by default (though you could house-rule this if you are eager to do so). The Location The location of a co-op battle can be determined in the following ways: • You may agree that the battle takes place on any neutral ground,such as a moon base, frontier colony,orbital station,or similar. In this case,no World traits will apply.The two crews are assumed to rely on shuttle transport to get to the location. • Alternatively,you may agree to play the encounter on a specific world that exists in either campaign.If your friends are playing Five Parsecs from Home,you may always opt to travel to a world they are currently on. This uses the normal rules for travel,but you do not roll for licensing or World traits.Instead you will automatically apply the same conditions already established when the world was established in the first player’s campaign. • A newly created crew can also simply choose to begin their campaign on a world in a friend’s campaign. To play an Opportunity battle,simply agree to do so during this campaign turn.Neither player will be attacked by Rivals while pursuing a co-op battle (but see below).Note: As jobs can take place off-world,you may agree to play a co-op Opportunity battle even if you are not on the same world.If so,assume both crews have shuttled to the location (a moon,space station, or similar).No World traits will be in effect. If you have previously agreed that you are on the same world and an Invasion takes place, each crew will have to flee,but you may agree to fight the Invasion battle together. Rivals If both crews have Rivals,you may instead opt to have a showdown against a coalition of your enemies.Each crew should randomly select one of their Rivals.The two selected Rivals have decided to team up to take you on. Objectives and Conditions If fighting against Rivals or an Opportunity mission,a Deployment Condition is rolled up normally (see core rules,p.88).Roll twice on the Notable SightsTable,placing one item 1D6+3” to the left of the center of the battlefield,and the other item 1D6+3” to the right of the center. The objective is always to Fight Off your opponents: To Win,at least one crew member must Hold the Field.Against Rivals,treat this as a Showdown (a straight-up fight,with no modifications). EXPANDED CO-OP BATTLES 39 GAME Options The Enemy Each player rolls up an enemy type as normal; you will face both of these enemies.If fighting Rivals,you will face an enemy force from each Rival type. • Generate each force as normal,but increase the number faced by +2. • Label the numerically larger force as Wave 1 and the second as Wave 2.If they are equal, randomize which is which. • Generate one additional Unique Individual,and add them to Wave 2. • These two waves are the known opposition. Initial Deployment Co-op battles are best played on a 3-foot square battlefield to allow the battle a little more space to unfold. If using the terrain guidelines on p.109 of the core rulebook, place 4 large, 6 small, and 4 linear terrain items to make the battlefield a bit more cluttered than normal. Forces should set up no closer than 24” apart. Set up the Wave 1 enemies first,then place the crew figures.The two crews set up on the same battlefield side,but must be separated by at least 8”. There is no roll to Seize the Initiative. Fighting the Battle The two crews are considered to be a single force for the duration of the battle.When a round begins,each player rolls for Reactions and assigns their dice normally.The dice pools are kept separate.In each of the Quick Actions and Slow Actions phases,the two players take it in turns to select and act with an eligible figure, starting with the player who has the fewest figures to use in that phase. Enemies act in the Enemy Actions phase, according to the normal rules. Wave 2 Arrival At the beginning of Round 3,before Reaction dice are rolled,the second wave arrives.Roll 1D6: On a 1-2 they are placed along the left battlefield edge,on a 3-4 they are placed along the enemy battlefield edge,on a 5-6 they are placed along the right battlefield edge. They will set up within 4” of the center of the selected edge. Wave 3 Arrival Roll 2D6 at the end of every round,starting with Round 3.If the combined roll is below the round number just finished,it turns out the enemy has brought additional forces. Roll up a new force using the Hired Muscle enemy tables (core rules,p.96).Add one additional specialist figure.A roll for Unique Individuals is not made: the third wave is automatically accompanied by one. Roll 1D6 to determine where this force arrives from: On a 1-2,they are placed along the left battlefield edge,on a 3-4,they arrive from the player’s battlefield edge behind them,on a 5-6,they are placed along the right battlefield edge.If rolling the same battlefield edge used by Wave 2,the third wave is placed on the opposite battlefield edge. Make it Quick From the end of Round 6 onwards,if the table is completely cleared of enemy forces,the game ends even if Wave 3 has not yet arrived. Setting Notes You may end up with forces that are not compatible with each other in the Unified Space setting.For example,nobody would willingly work with the Converted.You may opt to resolve these questions any way you like (the non-Converted force are actually infiltration cyborgs),or swap out one of the enemy forces to fit better.This is left up to the players to decide. 40 GAME OPTions Tough Fight Opponents are always counted as having a Panic range of 1,meaning they will only flee if a 1 is rolled on the Morale dice.Each enemy Wave is considered separate for Morale purposes.For example,casualties in Wave 1 only cause Morale dice to be rolled for Wave 1. Opponents with Cautious or Defensive AI are treated as Tactical AI instead. The Aftermath As long as at least one crew figure Holds the Field,both crews are assumed to have done so and Won.All remaining steps are conducted normally except for the following: Resolve Rival Status This step is conducted normally. Get Paid Each crew receives +1 when rolling for credits. Battlefield Finds Each crew may roll on the table. Check for Invasion! Make this check if any of the enemies faced were an Invasion Threat.Roll once,adding +1 per enemy Wave that had the Invasion Threat trait. Gather the Loot Each crew rolls a Loot item as normal.One player makes an additional Loot roll,with both crews obtaining this item. Notes and Variants Separate Enemy Teams Campaign difficulty and crew size adjustments may be applied to each of the two initial forces individually.In effect,each player rolls up their own enemy,which is then placed as Wave 1 and 2 respectively. Increased Challenge If you want a greater challenge,add one additional Lieutenant to Waves 1 and 2,then add two additional basic enemies to Wave 3. GAME Options The default AI is diceless to keep the game moving as quickly as possible.If you prefer a less predictable battle environment,you can use this system to determine enemy actions. Using these rules,enemies with the Beast, Rampage,and Guardian AIs function as they would currently.No changes are made. How to Use the New AI • Enemies still activate in the normal order. • When an enemy figure is selected to act, check if the base condition for the AI type applies.If it does,it will take the listed action.Otherwise,roll 1D6 to determine what actions the enemy takes. • As usual,resolve all actions by each figure completely before the next enemy is selected to act. Group Actions • Any group of enemies where a given figure is within 2” of another – for example in a skirmish line – will obey the same die roll instead of rolling for each figure. • If any figure in the group would be subject to the base condition,they all follow that option. Impossible or Stupid Actions The system may suggest an action that is impossible to carry out or which would make no sense in the current context of the game. In such circumstances,the player will have to inject some logic.After all,enemies will not wander off cliff-sides or charge into lava pools. If in doubt,the figure will remain in place and fire at a visible target. Cautious AI Base condition: If in Cover and visible opponents are within 12”,move away to the most distant position that remains in Cover and in range and retains Line of Sight to an opponent,then fire. ROLL ACTION 1 Retreat a full move,remaining in Cover. Maintain Line of Sight if possible. 2 Remain in place or maneuver within current Cover to fire. 3 Remain in place or maneuver within current Cover to fire. 4 Advance to within 12" of the nearest enemy and fire.Remain in Cover. 5 Advance to within 12" of the nearest enemy and fire.Remain in Cover. 6 Advance on the nearest enemy and fire, ending in Cover if possible. AI VARIATIONS 42 GAME OPTions Aggressive AI Base condition: If able to engage an opponent in brawling combat this round, advance to do so. ROLL ACTION 1 Maneuver within current Cover to fire. 2 Maneuver within current Cover to fire. 3 Advance to the next forward position in Cover.Fire if eligible. 4 Advance and fire on the nearest enemy. Use Cover. 5 Advance and fire on the nearest enemy. Fastest route. 6 Dash towards the nearest enemy. Fastest route. Tactical AI Base condition: If in Cover and within 12” of visible opponents,remain in position and fire. ROLL ACTION 1 Remain in place to fire. 2 Maneuver within current Cover to fire. 3 Advance to the next forward position in Cover or move to flank. 4 Advance to the next forward position in Cover or move to flank. 5 Advance and fire on the nearest enemy. Use Cover. 6 Advance and fire on the nearest enemy. Use Cover. Defensive AI Base condition: If in Cover and opponents in the open are visible, remain in position and fire. ROLL ACTION 1 Remain in place to fire. 2 Maneuver within current Cover to fire. 3 Maneuver within current Cover to fire. 4 Maneuver within current Cover to fire. 5 Advance to the next forward position in Cover. 6 Advance and fire on the nearest enemy. Use Cover. Notes: “Next forward position” means the next Cover or terrain feature that is closer to the player’s side and in front of the figure in question. “Use Cover” means the figure will attempt to remain in Cover or out of sight.A move in the open will be done by Dashing if it will bring the figure into Cover.The figure will only end a move out of Cover if the end of the move is not in sight of player figures. “Maneuver within Cover” means the figure will move within or behind the current terrain feature in order to get the best shot possible (preferring targets in the open over targets in Cover).If the figure is not in Cover currently,it will move to find Cover,Dashing if needed. 43 GAME Options With this system,the enemy will frequently set up in a way that befits a more cunning opposition force: Attempting to outflank you, sneaking up on you,or bursting out from where you least expect it during the mission. This both provides a greater challenge and makes scenarios more unpredictable. Set up both sides normally and roll to Seize the Initiative.If you fail,roll D100 on the table below,using the AI type to calculate which deployment type the enemy will use. If you successfully Seize the Initiative,the enemy will always use the Line (i.e.standard) deployment option. DEPLOYMENT AI TYPE AGGRESSIVE CAUTIOUS DEFENSIVE RAMPAGE TACTICAL BEAST Line 01-20 01-30 01-25 01-20 01-20 – Half flank 21-35 31-40 – 21-25 21-30 01-15 Improved positions – 41-50 26-40 – 31-40 16-20 Forward positions 36-50 – 41-45 26-45 41-50 21-35 Bolstered line 51-60 51-70 46-60 46-65 51-60 36-45 Infiltration 61-80 – 61-70 66-75 61-70 46-65 Reinforced – 71-90 71-85 76-80 71-80 66-70 Bolstered flank 81-90 – 86-90 81-90 81-90 71-80 Concealed 91-100 91-100 91-100 91-100 91-100 81-100 The core rulebook section on deployment (p.110) still applies as normal when determining how individual enemy figures are placed relative to each other. When placing figures arriving from concealment or infiltration,they should be placed anywhere within or directly behind the feature that would permit them to fire on at least one crew member. Arriving enemies without ranged attacks should be placed as close to a crew member as possible within the feature. enemy deployment variables 44 GAME OPTions DEPLOYMENT EFFECTS Line Enemy deployment remains as is. Half flank Randomly select a neutral battlefield edge.The half of the enemy forces closest to this battlefield edge is removed from the battlefield and set up near the center of the selected battlefield edge. No enemy may be set up closer than 12" to a crew figure. Improved positions Each enemy figure is moved to be in or directly behind the nearest terrain feature that would provide Cover while still providing a firing position. Forward positions Each enemy figure is moved to be in or directly behind the closest terrain feature that lies ahead of their position. Bolstered line Enemy deployment remains as is.If you are outnumbered or have equal numbers, generate one additional basic enemy figure to the force.If you outnumber the enemy,generate one additional basic enemy and one additional specialist enemy figure to the force. Infiltration Remove half the enemy figures from the table.At the end of Round 2,roll 1D6: 1. Place the figures on the tallest terrain feature. 2 Place the figures in the terrain feature closest to the left battlefield edge. 3. Place the figures in the terrain feature closest to the right battlefield edge. 4.	 Place the figures in the terrain feature closest to the most forward enemy figure. 5. Place the figures in the terrain feature closest to the center of the table. 6. Place the figures in the terrain feature closest to your battlefield edge. Reinforced Remove half the enemy figures from the table. At the end of each round,roll 1D6: If the roll is equal to or below the round number just played,the removed figures arrive from the center of the enemy battlefield edge.The arriving reinforcements are accompanied by two additional basic enemies. If the table has no enemies on it after a reinforcement roll is made,the mission ends. Bolstered flank Randomly select a neutral battlefield edge.The half of the enemy forces closest to this battlefield edge is removed from the table and set up near the center of the selected battlefield edge. Generate one additional specialist enemy for the flanking force.No enemy may be set up closer than 12" to a crew figure. Concealed Remove the enemy forces from the table and divide them into three groups.Mark the 6 largest terrain features on the table from 1 to 6 (using tokens or dice).At the end of Rounds 2,3,and 4 select a random terrain feature from those marked,and place one enemy group within the feature. 45 GAME Options This option caters to a more cinematic experience when fighting a battle.As you engage with the enemy forces and push them back, they will fight back harder, bring up reinforcements, or rush forward to storm your position. At the end of each round during combat,you will carry out an Escalation check if any of the following things happened during the round just completed: • Any enemy figures were removed from play • A crew member reached an objective • At the end of Round 1,if the enemy is currently outnumbered by 3 or more. Note that it does not matter how many of the above factors took place. If any of them took place, an Escalation check is performed. Roll D100 according to the main AI type, then consult the table below. During the battle, no more than 3 Escalation rolls are made. Once the third roll has been made, this table can be ignored. ESCALATION AI TYPE AGGRESSIVE CAUTIOUS DEFENSIVE RAMPAGE TACTICAL BEAST Morale increase 01-15 01-10 01-20 01-10 01-10 01-10 Fighting intensifies 16-30 11-15 21-40 11-20 11-25 11-15 Reinforcements! 31-45 16-40 41-50 21-45 26-30 16-35 Regroup – 41-55 51-65 – 31-45 – Sniper! – 56-70 66-75 – 46-60 – Ambush! 46-60 – – 46-60 – 36-80 Covering fire 61-70 71-80 76-90 – 61-85 – Unconventional tactics 71-80 81-100 91-100 61-65 86-100 – Rush attack 81-100 – – 66-100 – 81-100 ESCALATING BATTLES 46 GAME OPTions ESCALATION EFFECTS Morale increase The Panic range for remaining enemies is reduced by –1 (1-3 becomes 1-2,1-2 becomes 1,and 1 becomes Fearless).The effect lasts for the rest of the battle. If the enemy is already Fearless,treat as ‘Fighting intensifies’ on this table. Fighting intensifies Select a random enemy figure.Their Combat Skill is increased by +1.Their Toughness is increased by +1 (to a maximum of 5).The effect lasts for the rest of the battle. Reinforcements! Two additional basic enemies arrive from a random battlefield edge (Roll 1D6: 1-2 left side,3-4 right side,5-6 enemy edge).Place them at the center of the indicated battlefield edge.If the enemy has a base Combat Skill of +0, three enemies arrive instead,one of which will be a specialist. Regroup Each enemy will make a standard bonus move.Each will attempt to move to the most distant position that is in Cover,has Line of Sight to at least one crew member,and is in weapons range.If the enemy is currently outnumbered,place an additional basic enemy figure adjacent to a random enemy figure. Sniper! Place an additional enemy figure on the tallest terrain feature on the table.The figure is armed with a Marksman’s Rifle and increases their Combat Skill by +1 (to a maximum of +2). Ambush! Randomly select either the crew figure furthest to the left of the battlefield or furthest to the right.Place two new basic enemy figures half-way between the side battlefield edge and the selected crew figure. Covering fire Select the enemy closest to your battlefield edge.They will move up to 3" to establish the best possible shot without leaving Cover,then throw a Frakk grenade (if within 6") or fire their weapon (otherwise). If firing a weapon with only 1 shot per round,add +1 to the Hit roll. Unconventional tactics Next round,all crew members are counted as having a Reaction score of 1. Rush attack Each enemy moves a full move immediately,entering brawling combat if possible.If the enemy is currently outnumbered,two additional basic enemies are placed adjacent to the enemy figure closest to the enemy battlefield edge. Variation Mode (Optional Rule) If you prefer more variation,apply the following rule: If you roll an Escalation result that has already happened during the current battle,ignore it and count it as no result.However,his does NOT count as one of the three possible escalations during a battle. 47 GAME Options An experienced crew loaded up with modded guns will eventually outshoot the scummers and pirate rabble they encounter in Fringe Space as a matter of routine.Once you know you’re top dog,it’s time to kick things up a notch with elite-level enemies. These updated enemy tables take the place of the regular encounter tables in the core rulebook.They contain the same types of enemies,so if you already have models that you like to use for nomads or mercenaries, you can keep on using them.Instead,these tables focus on beefing up the opposition and making them stronger,better armed,and more devious.Along with stronger foes,you will also get slightly improved rewards after the battle, making it a more worthwhile prospect. While the core rulebook encounters lean towards being leniency,these aim to be tougher.If you are getting trounced,focus on the objective and get out of there! It is up to you when to “graduate” to these tougher enemies in your campaign.If you feel encounters have become a bit too predictably easy or you win several fights with no casualties, it is probably time to consider it.Of course,as many players enjoy a brutal fight,you may also simply choose to start here.Should you prefer a more gradual approach,you could add a die roll for each encounter.A D6 result of a 4+ might indicate an Elite opponent.You are welcome to swap back and forth as well.You may want to use the updated versions of some enemies,but not others,or use the Elite-level special rules for a new version with the old stats (or vice versa). Principles When creating these updated tables,a few core principles were kept in mind: • Avoiding the temptation to flood the table with bad guys.While most of the encounters do raise the numbers compared to the core rulebook (and in a few cases,dramatically so),I wanted to avoid people having to paint huge hordes of models to play with these new lists.In most cases,where encounter size has increased,it has done so by 1-2 figures. • Upgrading foes to feel actively mean, making life more difficult for your crew. If you play these encounters and end up shaking your fist at me, that could be called a job well done! • Applying variations to how dangerous the upgrades are.While all enemies are upgraded, there are still distinct differences in how dangerous these upgrades are; some will be seriously dangerous while others are only slight adjustments compared to the original versions. Complexity These encounter tables do feature more special rules than the regular versions.As players moving to these are assumed to be experienced with the game system, this should not be too much of a shock. Review each encounter carefully as some of the new rules apply during the set-up sequence. 48 ELITE-LEVEL ENEMIES GAME OPTions ENEMY SQUAD SIZE BASIC ENEMIES SPECIALISTS LIEUTENANTS CAPTAIN 4 3 1 – – 5 2 2 1 – 6 3 2 1 – 7+ 3+ 2 1 1 Elite-level Rivals Elite-level enemies are more persistent.When traveling to a new world,roll 1D6 for each Elite Rival you have: On a 4+ they opt to follow you to the new world. Elite Composition When facing elite-level enemies,roll up their size as normal.If the size would be less than 4 figures,increase it to 4.The opposing force is comprised as shown on the table above: Basic Enemies • Armed with the basic weapon for their type. Specialists • Armed with the specialist weapon for their type. • If Combat Skill is +0,increase it to +1. Lieutenant • Armed with the basic weapon for their type,plus a Blade. • Combat Skill is increased by +1. • Fearless. • If the character is normally armored, increase their Armor Saving Throw by +1. Otherwise add a 5+ Armor Saving Throw. Captain • Armed with the basic weapon for their type, plus a Ripper Sword. • Combat Skill is increased by +1. • Fearless. • If Toughness is less than 5,increase it to 5. If the character is normally armored, increase their Armor Saving Throw by +1. Otherwise add a 5+ Armor Saving Throw. Unique Individuals If you outnumber the enemy,they are automatically accompanied by a Unique Individual.If you do not outnumber them, roll normally,but a 7+ is required instead of the usual 9+. Leadership While Lieutenants or Captains are present, enemy Morale is improved according to the table below.Use the highest rank present: A Panic range of 0 indicates the enemy is Fearless,unless another modifier raises the Panic range. These bonuses only apply as long the character in question is on the battlefield. LEADERSHIP NORMAL PANIC RANGE MODIFIED PANIC RANGE Lieutenant 1-3 1-2 Lieutenant 1-2 1 Lieutenant 1 1 Captain 1-3 1 Captain 1-2 1 Captain 1 0 49 GAME Options Enemy Weapon Notes In some cases,enemies may carry more than one ranged weapon.For AI purposes,ignore this while moving; as long as the enemy is in range of one of their weapons,the AI is satisfied it is in range.If both weapons are in range,it will opt for the weapon with the most shots first,highest damage second,unless specifics are stated otherwise. Some enemy profiles will state that they replace specific weapons.Roll for their armaments normally.If one of the weapons generated is listed in the enemy profile as being replaced,they will carry the replacement weapon instead. For example,if the profile states that they replace all Scrap Pistols with Handguns,this change happens if you roll Scrap Pistols on the weapons table.Otherwise,nothing happens. Elite-level Rewards While facing off against Elite-level enemies is primarily a question of a tougher challenge, it is only fair that greater rewards follow. However,after fighting Elite-level enemies,the following rewards are designed to be modest improvements over standard rewards.A crew so tough they are handling these foes need little additional reward beyond the respect of other crew captains! Better Loot When rolling for Loot, you may make one additional roll beyond the usual amount allowed, then select which one of the rolled items you do not receive.This means you would typically roll twice and pick either result. If you were allowed two items normally, you would roll three times and pick two, and so forth. Patron Pay Any Patron job will pay +1 credit in additional Danger Pay (see p.83 of the core rulebook), as long as you manage to kill at least one opponent. Quest Rewards If finishing a Quest,you receive one additional Loot item. Brutal Fight If your entire crew are casualties in a battle, select one crew member of your choice that receives +1 XP. Elite-level Enemy Tables When facing an elite-level enemy,use the updated tables in place of the tables in the core rulebook. Elite Criminal Elements You are facing some sort of outlawed enterprise or faction. • Bounty pay: When engaging any opponents from this list,there is an increased chance of a bounty being available.When setting up,roll 1D6.If the score is 1-3,that is the number of bonus credits paid out if you Hold the Field after the battle. • Gang feuds: Career criminals also tend to get even.When rolling to see if a defeated criminal group becomes a Rival,you must roll 2D6,with a 1 on either die indicating that you have acquired them as Rivals.If both dice score a 1,they hate you; they become Rivals AND will increase the numbers encountered by +1 in all battles. Rules Conflicts Note: If there is a conflict between this expansion and the core rulebook,this expansion takes precedence regarding Elite- level enemies.You may,of course,house-rule any other answer to suit your campaign. 50 GAME OPTions ROLL ENEMY NUM. PANIC SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI WEAP. 01-10 Gangers +3 1-2 4" +1 4 A 1A Organized gangs run many backwater settlements,fighting for control. Bug Out: When a ganger is Hit by a shot,they will retreat 3" away from the shooter. Clack Clack: If the enemy would be armed with Scrap Pistols or Handguns,replace two with Shotguns.Shotgun specialists add an Assault Blade. Back Alley fighting: Gangers entering a brawl do not reduce their movement for crossing Difficult terrain. 11-19 Punks +4 1-2 5" +0 4 A 1A Disaffected delinquents,but armed to the teeth. Careless: You receive +1 to Seize the Initiative. Style over substance: Punks with Military Rifles or Scrap Pistols swap them for Machine Pistols. Git ’im!: A Punk attacking a Stunned target receives +1 to all shooting rolls. 20-27 Raiders +3 1-2 5" +1 4 A 2A The only thing better than making something valuable is stealing it from someone else Scavengers: If you Hold the Field,you may claim an additional roll on the Battlefield Finds Table. Always prepared: Any Raider with a Pistol-type weapon also carries a Blade. Secure the goodies: Raiders within 4" of an objective or notable sight marker will not Bail,and receive +1 to shooting and brawling rolls. 28-34 Cultists +4 1 5" +1 3 A 1A Fringe Space is full of odd para-religious groups,congregating around this or that principle.They are often heavily armed and up to no good. Intrigue: After the mission,roll 2D6.Add +1 if you killed a Lieutenant,Captain,or Unique Individual.On a 9+ you obtain a Quest Rumor. Fire makes it better: Lieutenants and Captains carry a Clingfire Pistol in addition to their regular weaponry. Destroy the unbeliever: Every time a Cultist is slain,select a random enemy with Line of Sight to the attacker.They will immediately fire on the attacker,Hitting only on 6s. 35-43 Psychos +4 1 6" +0 4 R 1B For some,life in space just drives them nuts – homicidally so. Fire frenzy: Unless firing an Area weapon,Psychos receive +1 shot with any weapon they use,but will Hit only on a natural 6.All shots must be against the same target. Eager to go: At the start of the Enemy phase,the Stunned Psycho closest to your battlefield edge removes 1 Stun marker. Goes boom: Any Psycho with a Scrap Pistol also carries Frakk Grenades.If in range of both weapons,the Psycho will throw a grenade if they can hit more than one target with it. 44-48 Brat Gang +2 1-2 5" +1 4 A 2C Upper class fools who have decided to shoot up the neighborhood for fun. Careless: You receive +1 to Seize the Initiative. Armor vests: 5+ Saving Throw. Best guns daddy could buy: Specialists receive +1 to shooting Hit rolls. 51 GAME Options ROLL ENEMY NUM. PANIC SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI WEAP. 49-51 Gene Renegades +2 1-2 5" +0 4 C 1B Devotees of post-growth genetic reconfiguration,they can take the form of anything from a woman with blue skin to cat-bear-people. Alert: You receive –2 to Seize the Initiative. Teeth and claws: Gene Renegades count as having Blades when brawling.Replace actual Blades with Ripper Swords. Like a predator: At the start of the Enemy Actions phase,select a random Gene Renegade in Cover.If there is a position within 5" that would allow them a shot at a crew member without Cover,move them there,then activate them. 52-57 Anarchists +3 1-2 5" +0 4 A 2B Separatist groups violently opposing the state and the mega-corps. Stubborn: The first two casualties in the battle do not force a Morale check. Explosive politics: Two basic enemies carry Frakk Grenades and will use them if in range. Fight the power: Anarchists receive +1 to Hit rolls when shooting at or brawling with your crew captain. 58-64 Pirates +3 1-2 5" +1 4 A 2A Space-faring looters who descend on colonies to raid,pillage and enslave. Loot: Gain an extra Loot roll if Holding the Field. Breach tactics: Lieutenants,Captains and 2 random basic enemies all carry Shatter Axes. Ship fighting techniques: A Pirate winning a brawl may immediately fire their weapon as a bonus action. 65-71 K’Erin Outlaws +2 1 5" +1 4 A 2A The warlike K’Erin are an honorable people,though their outcasts frequently raid Human colonies. Stubborn: The first two casualties in the battle do not force a Morale check. Para-military: Replace the weapon of one basic enemy with an Auto-Rifle. Regain our honor: At the beginning of the Enemy Actions phase,each K’Erin within 8" of a crew member rolls 1D6.On a 1-2,they immediately move 4" towards the nearest crew member as a free move and then activates normally. 72-79 Skulker Brigands +4 1-2 6" +1 3 C 1B Agile and gregarious,these rat-like humanoids show up almost anywhere in space. Alert: You receive –2 to Seize the Initiative. Scavengers: If you Hold the Field,you may claim an additional roll on the Battlefield Finds Table (core rulebook p.121). Pack tactics: If a Skulker is able to fire at a crew member that was already fired upon during the current Enemy Actions phase,they will do so even if they are not the closest target.Add +1 to all Hit rolls when doing so. 52 GAME OPTions ROLL ENEMY NUM. PANIC SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI WEAP. 80-83 Tech Gangers +2 1-2 5" +1 5 T 3C Weird criminal syndicates who seem to view high-tech with an almost religious reverence. Loot: Gain an extra Loot roll if Holding the Field. Overcharged weapons: In odd-numbered rounds (1,3,5,etc.) Hand Lasers and Infantry Lasers gain +1 Damage,while Blast Rifles gain Piercing. Tech Armor: 4+ Saving Throw. 84-90 Starport Scum +4 1-2 5" +0 3 D 1A Any starship port facility will have assorted lowlifes and villains hanging around,waiting to see if today is the day they make it big.It rarely is. Friday night warriors: When a Scum is slain,all allies within 6" will retreat 5" directly back towards their own battlefield edge,exiting the table if they reach the edge. The one in charge: Scum are always accompanied by a Unique Individual. Cornered rats: Scum within 6" of a crew member receive a temporary bonus of +1 to Combat Skill and Toughness. 91-94 Hulker Gang +1 1 5" +1 5 A 1A Human-derived brutes possessing massive upper body strength,they often succumb to berserk fury. Ferocious: When initiating a brawl,roll twice and pick the highest roll. Wrecking crew: All Hulkers strike with Damage 1 (Melee, Impact) when brawling.Hulkers with Melee weapons add +1 Damage and add the Impact trait. Aggro: If a shot fails to overcome a Hulker’s Toughness score,they are NOT pushed back. Immediately move them 2" towards the shooter,initiating a brawl if they make contact. Hulkers are not Stunned by shooting attacks. 95-100 Gun Slingers +2 1-2 5" +1 4 T 1B Desperados eager to test their trigger skills against an opponent. Trick shot: When firing a non-Area weapon,every natural 6 on the Hit dice allows an additional shot.Keep making shots as long as 6s keep being rolled. Downtown shooting style: If the target is within 8",roll 1 additional shot. Count the shells: Lieutenants and Captains carry a Machine Pistol in addition to their regular armaments. 53 GAME Options Elite Hired Muscle Someone has hired goons to stop you from achieving your goal.Alternatively,they may have been hired to bother whoever is paying you. • Paid professionals: Apply a –1 modifier when you try to Seize the Initiative. • Well supplied: Lieutenants and Captains receive a 4+ Armor Saving Throw, replacing any existing protection they would have. ROLL ENEMY NUM. PANIC SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI WEAP. 01-14 Unknown Mercs +2 1-2 5" +1 4 T 2B The Fringe is crawling with mercenary bands looking to make credits for paramilitary work. Most have some measure of honor,at least when dealing with other professionals. Let us just call it a day: If the Mercs are reduced to 1 or 2 remaining figures,you may call a truce at the end of any round.The battle ends and you do not Hold the Field. Tacti-cool: Two basic enemies have sighted weapons,adding +1 to Hit rolls when shooting. Supporting fire: If you defeat a Merc in a brawl,randomly select a Merc with Line of Sight to the winner.They will fire immediately as a bonus action,Hitting only on a natural 6. 15-26 Enforcers +2 1 4" +1 4 T 2A While the term usually refers to Unity law enforcement,in Fringe Space it tends to mean any organized troops keeping the peace. Cop killer: Enforcers always become Rivals after a battle. Blast and clear: Two basic enemies have under-barrel Shotguns fitted to their weapons.They will fire the Shotgun if they are in range,and the other weapon if not. Subdue: Enforcer strikes when brawling receive the Impact trait. 27-34 Guild Troops +2 1-2 4" +1 4 T 2C Many of the various trade and tech guilds maintain their own private armies to enforce their interests in space. Intrigue: After the mission,roll 2D6.Add +1 if you killed a Lieutenant,Captain,or Unique Individual.On a 9+ you obtain a Quest Rumor. Well supplied: All troops receive a 5+ Armor Saving Throw. Profit focused tactics: Guild troops within 6" of an objective or point of interest count as +1 to Toughness. 35-39 Roid-Gangers +2 1 6" +1 5 A 1A Criminal gangs obsessed with body enhancement.They often form sub-communities where they communicate through incoherent gibberish. Careless: You receive a +1 bonus to Seize the Initiative. 100% Protein: All Roid-Gangers carry a Blade.If an additional Blade is rolled,replace it with a Ripper Sword. Brutes: When initiating a brawl,Roid-Gangers add +1 to the die roll. 54 GAME OPTions ROLL ENEMY NUM. PANIC SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI WEAP. 40-42 Black Ops Team +1 1 6" +2 5 T 3A Highly trained,elite killers tasked with neutralizing the most dangerous targets.Who did you make angry this time? Fire teams: When firing,if any friendly Black Ops is within 3",reroll 1s on the firing dice unless using an Area weapon. Low light vision: In reduced visibility conditions,Black Ops can see clearly out to 12". Go! go! go!: At the end of each Enemy Actions phase,if any Black Ops are visible without Cover, select one such figure at random.They will move 6" to get into Cover,while maintaining Line of Sight to at least one crew member. 43-46 War Bots +1 – 4" +1 4 A 3C The CIM model War Bot,nicknamed “The Demon”,is a mainstay of high-tech,mech-infantry forces. Fearless: Never subject to Morale tests. Armored shell: 5+ Saving Throw. Following Fire: When firing weapons with 1 shot per round,if the initial shot Hits but fails to knock out the target,the War Bot immediately fires again at the same target.Only one additional shot can be gained. 47-50 Secret Agents +1 1 5" +1 4 C 2C Likely to be spooks working for some powerful organization. Costly Loot: If you Hold the Field,gain an additional Loot roll but add an unspecified Rival. Upgraded sights: When firing a weapon with 1 shot on the profile,Secret Agents receive +1 to Hit against targets in Cover. Intrigue: After the mission,roll 2D6.Add +1 if you killed a Lieutenant,Captain,or Unique Individual.On a 9+ you obtain a Quest Rumor. 51-53 Assassins +1 1 6" +2 4 A 1B Hired killers.The sort who would garrote themselves AND their grandmother if the job paid enough. Gruesome: Characters rolling for post-battle injuries must apply a –5 modifier to the roll. Stopping Power: Replace all Scrap Pistols and Handguns with Hand Cannons. Evasive tactics: All shots against Assassins in the open are –1 to Hit. 54-59 Feral Mercenaries +3 1-2 5" +1 4 A 2B Uplifted Humans merged with animal features,typically wolves. Quick Feet: Dash moves add +4" move distance instead of +2. Shoot to kill: One basic enemy replaces their weapon with a Blast Rifle.This trooper gets a +1 bonus to Hit when shooting. Dog Fight: Feral Mercs receive +1 Combat Skill if brawling within 4" of an ally. 60-64 Skulker Mercenaries +4 1-2 7" +1 4 C 2C Rat-man humanoids.These pests will work for anyone who pays and are surprisingly loyal. Sniff them out: You cannot Seize the Initiative. Firefight standard: Replace Hand Lasers with Infantry Lasers.One basic enemy has a sight (+1 to Hit). Chemical fog: Visibility is always limited to 9" for crew (unless it would be lower due to other circumstances).Skulker Mercs are never restricted by visibility limits. 55 GAME Options ROLL ENEMY NUM. PANIC SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI WEAP. 65-74 Corporate Security +2 1-2 5" +1 4 D 2B The corporations pay better than the Unity armed forces,plus great dental insurance. Armor vests: 5+ Saving Throw. Flash bangs: Each round,one Security trooper in range will throw a Dazzle Grenade.If multiple Security troopers are in range,select at random. Covering fire: Each Enemy Actions phase,the first time a trooper Stuns a target,a random trooper in range and Line of Sight will immediately fire at the same target.This is a bonus action and does not limit regular actions. 75-79 Unity Grunts +2 1 5" +1 4 T 2C While often dismissed as unimaginative cannon fodder,Unity troops are well-trained professionals. Armor vests: 5+ Saving Throw. Standard issue: Replace Colony Rifles or Hand Lasers with Needle Rifles. Shock tactics: At the start of each Enemy Actions phase,select a random Grunt within Line of Sight and range.They will fire,move,and then fire again. 80-85 Security Bots +2 – 4" +1 5 D 2A Typical Security Bots used to guard all manner of installations and locations. Really careless: You may add +2 when rolling to Seize the Initiative. Robot punch: All Bots can punch: Melee,Damage 1. Bots: 5+ Saving Throw and Fearless. 86-90 Black Dragon Mercs +2 1-2 5" +1 4 T 2C Extremely professional,the Black Dragons have carefully cultivated a reputation for “clean” operations and high standards. Stubborn: The first two casualties in the battle do not force a Morale check. Back up armaments: Specialists,Lieutenants,and Captains all carry Glare Swords. Consumate professionals: Specialists have +2 Combat Skill. 91-95 Rage Lizard Mercs +1 1-2 5" +1 5 T 3B The Rage Lizard mercenary unit specialize in boarding and ship-board operations. Up Close: If a Rage Lizard is within 1" of a terrain feature,add +1 to brawling rolls. Burn ’em out: Each Basic enemy carries a one-use Hand Flamer in addition to their main weapon, and will fire it the first time they are in range. Aggressive tactics: A Rage Lizard that activates within 5" of a crew member may fire their weapon and then move to brawl in the same activation. 96-100 Blood Storm Mercs +1 1 5" +1 5 A 2B Outlawed in many systems,the Blood Storm merc company are cold-blooded killers.They will take any assignment that doesn’t involve an excessive amount of war crimes. Ferocious: +1 to brawling rolls when initiating combat. Uncreative tactics: All basic enemies carry Ripper Swords. Finish them off: A crew member defeated in a brawl and having no allies within 3" will be unable to benefit from any rerolls or modifiers to the post-battle injury roll,and the injury roll cannot be bypassed by any means. 56 GAME OPTions Elite Interested Parties For reasons of their own,another group has taken an interest in the job you are doing. • Mastermind: Add +1 when rolling to see if a Unique Individual is present. • On the trail: If encountering an Interested Party during a Quest mission,add +1 to the number encountered. ROLL ENEMY NUM. PANIC SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI WEAP. 01-06 Renegade Soldiers +2 1-2 4" +1 4 T 2B Deserters,mutineers,and other scoundrels.These groups often declare themselves local warlords and overlords. Grudge: If encountered as a Rival,add +1 to the number encountered. Scrap armor: All receive a 6+ Armor Saving Throw. Suppressing fire: Renegade soldiers firing an Auto-rifle or Rattle Gun add +1 shot. 07-13 Bounty Hunters +2 1-2 5" +1 4 T 1B Hunting down fugitives and people that the warlords,governments and gang bosses want found is a booming business,especially if you aren’t too fussed about the legality of it all. Intrigue: After the mission,roll 2D6.Add +1 if you killed a Lieutenant,Captain,or Unique Individual.On a 9+ you obtain a Quest Rumor. Hunting tools: Replace any Scrap Pistols with Dueling Pistols. The mark: Randomly select a crew member at the start of the battle.Bounty Hunters receive +1 to all shooting and brawling attacks versus this character. 14-18 Abandoned +3 1-3 5" +0 4 A 1A Occasionally,a sort of sickness strikes crews in deep space for extended durations.The causes are unknown,but they often seek out old acquaintances,attacking in an animal-like fever. Careless: You receive +1 to Seize the Initiative. Swarming: Every 5-6 on the Morale dice results in another basic enemy being placed on the battlefield.Place them within 1" of the most distant enemy figure. Cowardly: Lieutenants are affected by Morale dice normally. 19-27 Vigilantes +2 1-2 4" +1 4 A 2A Disgruntled locals who have decided to take matters into their own hands. Persistent: If fought as Rivals,when rolling to resolve Rival status after the battle,a 5+ is required to remove them. Discouragement: One basic enemy replaces their ranged weapon with a Shotgun. Angry mob: If 3+ Vigilantes are within 2" of each other or on/within the same terrain feature, Panic range is reduced by –1. 28-35 Isolationists +2 1 4" +1 3 C 1A Whenever a group of people declare that they are a political unit,inevitably a smaller group will declare that they will have nothing to do with the rest of them. Dogged: If reduced to only 1 or 2 remaining figures,the remaining Isolationists become Fearless. Militia gear: Replace Scrap Pistols and Handguns with Colony Rifles for basic enemies. Keep off: When shooting at crew in/on/behind a terrain feature within 8" of the shooter,add +1 to Hit rolls. 57 GAME Options ROLL ENEMY NUM. PANIC SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI WEAP. 36-41 Zealots +2 1 5" +0 4 A 1A Near-suicidal devotees to some cause,belief,principle,or brand loyalty. Ferocious: +1 to brawling rolls when initiating combat. Excitable: Lieutenants and Captains carry an additional Hand Flamer and will fire them in preference to other weapons,if in range. The Prophecy!: Every time a 6 is rolled on a Morale die,the Zealot closest to the player’s battlefield edge gains +1 Combat Skill for the rest of the battle. 42-48 Mutants +4 1-2 4" +0 5 A 1A The result of genetic warfare,black-site experiments,or hostile environments,these wretches are often treated with considerable prejudice.Needless to say,eventually some decide to fight back. Cowardly: Lieutenants are affected by Morale dice normally. Scrap war: Specialists,Lieutenants and Captains carry a Brutal Melee Weapon. Underdog: If the enemy is currently outnumbered on the battlefield,count Combat Skill as +1. 49-52 Primitives +4 1-2 6" +1 4 A - For various reasons,space is full of groups of Humans or aliens existing on a pre-industrial level. Going medieval: Instead of normal weapons,each enemy carries a Blade.Specialists, Lieutenants,and Captains carry a Brutal Melee Weapon. Rush job: Dash moves add +3" to movement,instead of the customary +2". Sneaking in: In Rounds 1 and 2,all Primitives are counted as being in Cover,regardless of their position on the table. 53-56 Precursor exiles +1 1-2 6" +2 4 T 3B The refined and elegant Precursors are rarely seen in Human space.Those that are met tend to be the outcasts and those too wild to find a place in their serene home culture. Prediction: You cannot Seize the Initiative. High-tech weapons: Replace Auto Rifles with Plasma Rifles,and Rattle Guns with Hyper Blasters. Spite: When a Lieutenant or Captain becomes a casualty,they immediately fire any Pistol carried at the nearest crew member before dying.This shot can be taken even if defeated by brawling. 57-63 K’Erin Colonists +3 1 5" +1 4 A 2A When this warrior species decides to colonize a world,war almost inevitably follows. Stubborn: The first two casualties in the battle do not force a Morale check. It’s for woodwork: All Colonists carry Ripper Blades. Invasion Threat. 64-68 Swift War Squad +4 1 7" +1 3 A 1B Diminutive winged lizards who live in a highly ritualistic caste society. Unpredictable: No modifiers can be applied to the Seize the Initiative roll. We like the sound: Two basic enemies replace their weapons with Needle Rifles. The stars say to stay: Once two Swift have been removed due to Morale failures,the remaining enemies become Fearless. 58 GAME OPTions ROLL ENEMY NUM. PANIC SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI WEAP. 69-72 Soulless Task Force +1 1 4" +2 5 T 3C Alien robot species operating in an inter-linked hive mind of sorts.Inscrutable. Force screen: Lieutenants and Captains receive a Saving Throw even against Piercing weapons. Armored chassis: 6+ Armor Saving Throw. Inter-link: If a Soulless fires at a target that any other Soulless had already fired upon this round, they fire 1 additional shot. 73-76 Tech Zealots +2 1-2 5" +1 5 A 3C Cultists who worship technology.Often brimming with poorly fitted cybernetics. Loot: Gain an extra Loot roll if you Hold the Field. Tech sidearms: Lieutenants and Captains carry a Blast Pistol. Part machine: 6+ Armor Saving Throw. 77-83 Colonial Militia +3 1-2 4" +1 3 C 2B The armed militia of a colony is its first line of defense and often doubles as law enforcement. Occasionally,the distinction between “organized militia”,“armed criminal gang” and “gun-toting lunatics” can be deceptively difficult to tell. Home field advantage: All crew shots over 12" range count as being in Cover. Defensive armaments: One basic enemy replaces their weapon with a Fury Rifle. Delaying action: Militia figures within 6" of a visible crew member may fire,then retreat a full move. 84-88 Planetary Nomads +3 1-2 6" +1 3 C 2A On many habitable worlds,colonists will abandon civilization and go live among the dunes and jungles.They tend to react poorly to interlopers. Alert: You are –3 to Seize the Initiative. Silent killers: One basic enemy replaces their weapon with a Needle Rifle. Hunting shot: Weapons with a shot characteristic of 1 gain the Critical trait. 89-100 Salvage Team +2 1-3 4" +1 4 T 2B A rival crew looking for salvage and ready to fight for it. Scavengers: If you are allowed to roll for Battlefield Finds after the battle,you may roll twice. Hard entry: Two basic enemies carry Flak guns in addition to their main weapon and will fire them in preference if in range.All Lieutenants and Captains carry Shatter Axes. Here for the goods: Enemies within 6" of an objective or Notable Sight when activated will move directly towards the item,then fire,taking one shot more than usual. 59 GAME Options Elite Roving Threats You’ve stumbled into something dangerous in the area and must fight for your life. Any valuables found will typically be remnants of some unlucky prior crew. • At least they don’t bear grudges: Enemies from this list cannot be Rivals. • All the same: Enemies from this list are not accompanied by Unique Individuals, except on the Insanity difficulty setting (core rulebook,p.65). ROLL ENEMY NUM. PANIC SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI WEAP. 01-04 Converted Acquisition +2 0 4" +1 4 A 2B Nightmarish cyborg race that replenishes their ranks through captives and corpses,enhanced with bolted-in weaponry and control circuitry. Careless: You receive +1 to Seize the Initiative. Built-in: Weapons remove Heavy trait. Armored: 5+ Armor Saving Throw. Invasion threat 05-12 Converted Infiltrators +2 0 4" +1 4 A 1A The Converted often send in adapted members of a prospective target species to scout and spy. Infiltrators: At the end of each Enemy Actions phase,select a random Infiltrator that is not visible to any crew member.They immediately move towards the closest crew member.If any terrain feature lies between the Infiltrator and the selected crew,place them in the middle of (or directly behind) the terrain feature.If there are no intervening features,move them into the feature occupied by the crew member or (if in the open) within 4". Armored: 5+ Armor Saving Throw. Invasion threat 13-18 Abductor Raiders +4 1 4" +1 3 A 2A The short,large-headed clone species known as the Abductors are despised throughout space.They insist they are abducting and mind-controlling other sapients for a higher purpose. Scurry: If firing at an Abductor in the open and missing,the target immediately takes a normal move towards Cover. Capture plans: Specialists add Stun trait to any weapon carried. Invasion threat 19-28 Swarm Brood +5 0 6" +1 4 B Claws Multiple-limbed aliens that react to all lifeforms with extreme violence. Claws: Melee,Piercing,Damage 1. Pack hunters: Each time the Swarm initiates a brawl,the nearest enemy within 8" will immediately move 4" towards the target. Dodge: Shots at Swarm in the open and over 9" away are –1 to Hit. Invasion threat 60 GAME OPTions ROLL ENEMY NUM. PANIC SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI WEAP. 29-34 Haywire Robots +3 0 5" +0 4 R Smash Occasionally robots go berserk.This isn’t a problem when it’s a cat-sized cleaning device.It is a problem when the robot is a mining or construction bot. Smash: Melee,Damage 2. Heart of steel: 6+ Armor Saving Throw.Immune to Stun. Careless: You receive +1 to Seize the Initiative and robots do not receive Cover unless they are in or immediately behind the terrain feature. 35-44 Razor lizards +4 1-2 6" +1 3 B Fangs An oversized lizard brimming with spikes and sharp teeth. Fangs: Melee,Piercing,Damage +0. Pointy bits: A character winning a brawl by only 1 point takes a Damage +0 Hit. Slither and sneak: Razor Lizards suffer no movement reductions for terrain features and can move over obstacles up to 2" height with no movement penalty.They can Jump down from a feature up to 3" height with no damage or movement reduction. 45-56 Sand Runners +4 1-2 7" +0 3 B Chomp Fast predators associated with desert planets.As they are trainable,they can be found on many Human worlds,though unfortunately,if set free,they revert to wild behavior quickly. Chomp: Melee,Damage 1. Leap: If a Sand Runner finishes a normal move within 3" of a crew member,it will leap into brawling combat as a Free Action. They can hear you breathe: Any time two or more 6s are rolled on the Reaction dice at the start of the round,an additional Sand Runner is placed on the table 1D6" from the center in a random direction. 57-63 Void Rippers +3 1 5" +1 5 R Teeth Swarms of extremely aggressive fish-like flyers.They can rip a man to shreds in moments. Teeth: Melee,Damage +0. Gruesome: When rolling for post-battle injuries,apply –5 to the roll.Bots and Soulless are not penalized. Hover: Rippers are assumed to float 1" above the terrain and are not inhibited by any ground features,including Impassable ones.They never trigger any form of Environmental Hazard. 64-69 Krorg +1 0 5" +2 6 R Rip and tear These beasts resemble a bear from Old Earth,but with larger claws and a surly demeanor. Rip and tear: Melee,Damage 2. Ferocious: +1 to brawling when initiating the combat. Hulking brute: Immune to Stun.+1 to Hit when shooting at a Krorg when one is in the open. 61 GAME Options ROLL ENEMY NUM. PANIC SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI WEAP. 70-78 Large bugs +5 1-2 5" +1 5 R Mandibles Oversized insects and other creepy-crawlies are a distressingly common sight throughout space. Mandibles: Melee,Stun,Damage 1. Easy targets: +1 to Hit when shooting at Bugs. Wave attacks: Each time a Bug is removed due to Morale loss,another Bug arrives.Each time a Bug is destroyed,roll 1D6.On a 5-6,another Bug arrives.Use a random direction roll in the center of the table to determine which battlefield edge the Bug arrives from. 79-84 Carnivore Chasers +4 1-2 7" +1 4 B Teeth Fast pack predators.Will hunt any prey they can bring down. Teeth: Melee,Damage +0. Keen senses: You cannot Seize the Initiative. Latch on: A crew member that loses a brawl takes one additional Hit. 85-97 Vent Crawlers +2 0 6" +2 4 R Claws Homicidal alien lifeforms that like to lurk inside starships and on strange moons. Claws: Melee,Piercing,Damage 1. Fate worse than death: If a post-battle injury roll indicates the character has died,they cannot be saved and no rerolls are possible for any reason. We call them that because: At the start of Round 1,before Reaction dice are rolled,roll 1D6 for every Area terrain feature.Every 5-6 causes a Vent Crawler to be placed within the feature. 98-100 Distorts +1 0 4" +0 4 B Corroding Touch Extra-dimensional horrors.It’s rumored they are the remnants of sapient beings who were lost in teleport accidents. Corroding touch: Melee,Piercing,Damage 3. Shimmer: Distorts ignore all terrain and obstacles when moving,regardless of height. Displace: When a Distort is slain,roll 1D6.On a 5-6,place a new Distort 1D6" directly behind the slain enemy,away from the attacker. Elite Unique Individuals All Unique Individuals follow these rules: • They are Fearless and unaffected by Morale. • They may follow a different AI routine. If using the AI Variations rules (p.42), Unique Individuals always roll separately, based on their own AI.If using the Enemy Deployment Variables (p.44) or Escalating Battles (p.46),those rolls are based on the main enemy AI. • Many of them have Luck and follow the same battle rules as player characters. ROLL ENEMY SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI LUCK WEAPONS 01-06 Enemy Bruiser — — +1 G 0 Power Claw,Shotgun A particularly unpleasant-looking individual. Bruisers have the base profile of the enemy fought,with the above changes.Listed weapons replace those normally carried. Overbearing: If the Bruiser rolls a natural 6 when brawling,the opponent is knocked back 3". 62 GAME OPTions ROLL ENEMY SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI LUCK WEAPONS 07-12 Enemy Heavy — — — D 0 Plasma Rifle The enemy has opted to bring some additional firepower. Heavies have the base profile of the enemy fought,with the above changes.Listed weapons replace those normally carried. Rock ’n’ Roll: Add +1 shot if stationary and firing. 13-17 Enemy Boss — +1 +1 — 1 Hand Cannon, Shatter Axe One of the worst has managed to climb to the top of the hierarchy. Bosses have the base profile of the enemy fought,with the above changes.Listed weapons replace those normally carried. Authority figure: Reduce Panic range by –1,but when slain,roll an additional Morale die. 18-22 Hired Killer 6" +2 5 A 1 Machine Pistol, Glare Sword Will murder for credits. Following fire: When firing,every natural 6 allows the Hired Killer another shot against the same target or a different target within 4" of the initial target. 23-25 Corporate Spook 5" +1 4 C 1 Hand Laser One of the mega-corps must be up to no good if they send these creeps. Fidgety: If the Spook is the only remaining enemy figure,they flee the battle. Employee evaluation: If the Spook is killed,add 1 Rumor and a Rival. State of the art gear: 5+ Screen Saving Throw. 26-30 Bounty Tracker 6" +2 5 A 1 Shotgun, Suppression Maul Someone is willing to pay money to have you brought in,whole or in pieces. Target priority: Randomly select a crew member at the start of the first Enemy Action phase. The Bounty Tracker will always attempt to close with and attack that character. 31-35 Callous Merc 5" +2 5 T 1 Infantry Laser, Glare Sword Bitter and disillusioned mercenaries sometimes strike out on their own. Stay in the fight: If struck by a ranged attack and surviving,the Callous Merc immediately fires at the attacker as a bonus action. Seen it all: No Stun markers can be placed on the Merc if they already have one. 36-41 Freelancer 5" +2 4 T 1 Blast Pistol, Ripper Sword A troubleshooter hired to supervise an operation and take care of any intrusions. Interesting kit: If you slay the Troubleshooter in a brawl,make a Loot roll and claim the item for use immediately. Calculating: When rolling for Reactions each round,one of your dice is set to a 6 automatically. The rest are rolled normally. 63 GAME Options ROLL ENEMY SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI LUCK WEAPONS 42-44 Secret Agent 6" +2 4 A 2 Various,Glare Sword Mysterious individual,packing some state-of-the-art murder implements. Combination weapons: When activated each round,roll 1D6 to determine weapon for that round: 1-2 Plasma Rifle,3-4 Fury Rifle,5-6 Flak Gun. 45-48 Hulker Brawler 5" +1 6 A 0 Flak Gun,Shatter Axe A burly post-Human uplift,brimming with strength and barely contained anger. Overpowering: Roll twice and pick the highest roll when brawling. Brute rush: If struck by ranged attacks,and the roll versus Toughness is a natural 1,the Brawler moves a full move directly towards the shooter,attempting to engage them in a brawl.This can only happen once per weapon attack,and resolves after all shots from the attacker are resolved. 49-53 Gun Slinger 5" +1 4 T 1 Hand Cannon, Machine Pistol One of any number of trigger-happy people that seem to congregate in Fringe Space.The best of them are frighteningly effective at their craft. Slinging guns: May fire both pistols in the same round.Resolve the Hand Cannon first.Different targets may be selected. 54-56 Engineer Tech 6" +1 4 C 1 Blast Pistol A quiet alien species fascinated with technology and gadgetry. Weapon upgrades: Each Enemy Action phase,pick a random enemy figure.They may reroll 1s when firing this phase. 57-61 Mutant Bruiser 4" +1 5 G 1 Shotgun,Brutal Melee Weapon A misshapen beast of a creature,irregular in both body and temperament. Ferocious: +1 bonus when initiating a brawl. Hurl: If a brawl ends as a draw,the Bruiser hurls their opponent 1D6" in a random direction.The target is then Stunned.This happens instead of both figures taking a Hit as normal. 62-65 Precursor Wanderer 7" +2 4 A 1 Infantry Laser, Glare Sword An alien mystic,brimming with psionic energies. One with the flow: When activated normally,the Wanderer fires their weapon immediately,then moves and then fires a second time. Predictions: When declaring any shot against the Wanderer,roll 1D6.On a 5-6,the shot cannot be taken (and another target cannot be selected),and the Wanderer immediately takes a half move and then fires once at the would-be attacker. 66-69 Hakshan Investigator 5" +1 4 D 1 Plasma Rifle Odd,suited aliens that trek the Galaxy in search of something vitally important to their species. Driven: If a Notable Sight is present on the table and has not yet been claimed,the Investigator adds +1 to all shooting and brawling rolls. Armored suit: Not affected by any environmental threats.All weapons count as Damage +0 against the suit. 64 GAME OPTions ROLL ENEMY SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI LUCK WEAPONS 70-75 K’Erin Warrior 5" +3 5 A 1 Machine Pistol, Ripper Sword A noble alien warrior seeking adventure. Master fencer: A brawl ending in a draw is treated as a win by the Warrior. 76-79 Nomad Scout 6" +1 4 D 0 Hunting Rifle,Blade A skilled tracker and shooter,hiring out to the starfolk for credits. Concealed: Always counts as being in Cover when fired upon. Deadly accuracy: +1 to Hit bonus when shooting. 80-82 Cyborg Merc 7" +2 6 T 1 Auto Rifle, Power Claw A mercenary stuffed full of cybernetic enhancements.Often contemptuous of the “meat-bags” they fight alongside. Built-in armor: 5+ Armor Saving Throw.If negated by Piercing weapon,the Merc still receives a saving throw on a 6. Nerve overrides: Remove a Stun marker when activating,instead of afterwards. 83-85 Rogue Psionic 5" +0 4 C 3 Hand Gun, Hold Out Pistol Self-taught Psionics are a substantial asset in a gun battle. I just knew how to: Allies within 3" of the Psionic may reroll 1s when firing. 86-91 Gene Dog 6" +1 4 G 0 Fangs Enhanced versions of Earth-dog breeds,usually modified to withstand the environment. Fangs: Melee,Piercing,Damage +0. Loyal: When someone engages the owner in a brawl,the Dog immediately moves a full move to enter the same brawl.If it succeeds,it will fight the attacker instead of the owner.If the owner is slain,the Dog will remain in place,attacking anyone that comes within 8".If the Dog is the only remaining enemy on the battlefield,it will flee. 92-96 Sand Runner 7" +1 4 G 0 Chomp These fierce lizards can make surprisingly loyal companions. Chomp: Melee,Damage 1. Leap: If a Sand Runner finishes a normal move within 3" of a crew member,it will leap into brawling combat as a Free Action. 97-100 Mk II Security Bot 5" +2 5 G 0 Fury Rifle,Power Claw The state of the art in robotic security details. Targeting AI: May fire twice per round.Shots must be taken at each of the two closest visible targets.If only one target is visible,only one shot is taken. Armored chassis: 5+ Armor Saving Throw. 65 GAME Options Introduction This system allows you to resolve a battle in Five Parsecs without the use of miniatures. It is useful if you want to progress your campaign, but can’t set up a tabletop battle due to space constraints or while traveling. It can be used at any time and can be mixed with conventional tabletop battles as you see fit. Note, however, It is not easily usable with the Salvage mission type (see p.116). The Basics of No-minis Combat The battlefield is considered to be an open, abstract space, filled with terrain for combatants to lurk behind. Most of the time, you do not need to track the positioning of characters using this system. Each combatant is assumed to be moving fluidly throughout the battle space.This applies even if two characters engage in a Brawl: They are assumed to fight briefly, and then run for cover.As such, characters are not assumed to be “near” each other at any specific point other than when the rules allow them to engage in Brawling combat. The battlefield may have specific Locations present, such as objectives.A character can move to a Location during the battle using the rules below. The turn sequence is heavily modified, as explained below, but the phases of the no- minis battle round are: 1. Battle flow events (additional optional rule – see p.71) 2. Initiative 3. Firefight It is common for some characters to not act during a given battle round. In such cases, they are assumed to be moving around the battle area without encountering a significant target. No-minis combat resolution Designer Notes: This system is designed to provide a heavy level of abstraction.As such, some weapons, items and abilities may prove more or less useful when compared to their normal utility in battle. Likewise, you may need to provide interpretation to make a particular item or situation fit. If in doubt, simply go with the most reasonable answer. This system is not easily compatible with the “AI Variations”, “Escalating Battles” and “Enemy Deployment Variables” options elsewhere in this Compendium. House rule as you see fit. 66 Game Options Initiative Actions Roll for initiative at the beginning of each round using one die less than normal. Both your crew captain and any character assigned a die equal to or below their Reactions score may attempt one Initiative Action each.These actions may be done in any order, and you may carry out one action before deciding on the next.These are the moments in which you attempt to improve your situation in a decisive way, positioning yourself in the battle space, or otherwise achieving a particular end. Characters assigned a die result higher than their Reactions score are assumed to be engaged in the general firefight, and do not take specific actions of their own. Many actions will require a Battlefield Test, in which you roll 2D6, attempting to roll equal to or above the indicated target number.A failed action has no particular effect other than failing to carrying it out the task. Applicable Bonuses: Characters may have all manner of abilities, items and features that are not accounted for in these rules. If a character has one or more things that feels like it logically would assist in performing a specific type of action, they may claim a single +1 bonus if a Battlefield Test is required. Many items, rules and abilities will not provide a bonus in this combat system. Enemy Actions: Note that the enemy acts in the firefight phase and ONLY acts as indicated there. 67 Game Options ACTION DESCRIPTION 2D6 BATTLEFIELD TEST Scout for Locations Select a suspected Location that becomes known to the crew. This action is not possible in the first game round. 6+ required. Add +1 for Movement speed of 5” or above. Move Up The character moves to any known Location that does not already have a character present. If a character is at a Location currently, they may opt to move to the general battle space instead. No roll required. Carry Out Task This is typically used for achieving objectives.The character must be at the correct Location to do so. If the scenario requires a die roll to be made for an action, the crew member may carry it out now.The character may still fight normally if engaged in combat this battle round. Dependent on the scenario. Charge Select a random Enemy.After selecting them,you may choose to engage them in a Brawl which is resolved immediately. Roll 1D6.If the roll is above your character movement speed, the enemy may fire upon you at 6” range,counting as Cover. If you decide not to engage, nothing happens. 6+ required. Add +1 for Movement speed of 5” or above. Add +1 for use of special movement device. Optimal Shot Select a random Enemy.You may engage them in a Firefight, as described below.You may select any range up to the maximum for your weapon. Both characters will fire at the selected range, with the crew member firing first. A character unable to fire at the selected range (or at all) does not fire, and remains available in the Firefight step. If the Enemy figure fires as part of this combat, they cannot be selected as an attacker in the Firefight step later this battle round. 7+ required. -1 penalty if using a Heavy weapon. Support Select a crew member.If that crew member is engaged in combat during this round,the Supporting character may opt to be engaged instead.Once this action has been taken, it lasts until the Supporting character is engaged in combat for any reason.A character could potentially Support multiple allies at the same time,but all Supports are removed when they are engaged for any reason. No roll required. Take Cover The character takes Cover.This affects Firefights as explained below.The character retains the status until they take a Move Up action, or has engaged in Brawling combat. 6+ required. -1 penalty if at a Location. Keep Distance The character can only be selected as a target this round by enemies with a weapon range exceeding 12”. If selected, combat is resolved as normal, but both characters can only use weapons with a range over 12”. 6+ required. Add +1 for Movement speed of 5” or above 68 Game Options Locations A number of Locations may exist on the battlefield.Any scenario objectives present as well as any Notable Sights are considered to be Locations. All Locations begin battle as suspected Locations.The crew know they are there, but have not found them yet.They must be uncovered, usually with the Scout for Locations action (see above). Characters can move to a known Location using the Move Up action. Only one character may occupy a Location at any given time. Once at a Location, the character remains there until they move away using the Move Up action. Enemies never occupy Locations and cannot interact with them in any way. Support If the targeted character is being Supported, the Supporting character may opt to take their place in the engagement.This does not affect locations. The Firefight The main phase of the battle round is the Firefight. During this phase, the combatants move around, spot targets, and engage in a brief exchange of opinion (and gunfire). Randomly select 3 Enemies (select 4, if there are 7 or more total Enemies on the battlefield).These are the Enemies that will engage in a Firefight.Any remaining opponents are assumed to be hiding, trying to get a Line of Sight, or shooting at shadows. The Firefight is resolved one Enemy at a time. The player may choose the order in which the Enemies are resolved.When selected to be resolved, the Enemy will target a random crew figure and engage them in combat as explained below. It is possible for more than one Enemy to target the same crew member. The specific way an enemy engages is determined by the weapons they carry: Game Options When both combatants carry ranged weapons: The combatant with the longer weapon range fires first. If their target survives, the target then returns fire. If ranges are identical, the crew figure fires first. • Each shooter is assumed to be stationary. • Each shooter uses the maximum range for their weapon. • Both combatants are assumed to be in Cover. • Each shooter will fire their maximum number of allowed Shots for the weapon in question. When there is a Melee-only combatant: If one of the two characters involved can attack only by Brawling, their opponent may shoot first at 6” range, counting the target as being in Cover.The target may not use a Heavy or Area weapon. If the target survives, they will then engage in Brawling combat. If the target fired in defense, they cannot swap to another weapon and must forego any Melee weapons bonus.They may receive the Pistol bonus if they fired a pistol defensively. If they did not fire in defense, they may use any weapon to Brawl. When combatants have both Melee weapons and guns: If an Enemy carries a Melee weapon and is out-ranged by their opponent, they will engage in Brawling combat instead (as detailed above). Crew figures may choose to exercise this option, if desired. Combatants with Pistol weapons are not eligible for this rule: It must be a Melee weapon. Taking Cover • If a character is Taking Cover, all shots made by and against them will hit only on a natural 6. • If an Enemy with any Brawling weapon engages the character, the two will conduct Brawling combat, and no fire can be performed by the character Taking Cover. They may use any weapon carried in the ensuing Brawl. Further notes: Multiple attacks: It is possible the same character would be attacked multiple times. A character may never fire more than once per round.When engaged, crew members may opt not to fire, if desired, while Enemies will always fire, if able. Weapon traits: Area and Terrifying are ignored. Stun damage: All Stun markers are removed at the end of the battle round. Stunned characters cannot attempt to enter Brawling combat. Hectic Combat (additional optional rule) If you want a more frantic pace of combat, allow characters to shoot each time they are engaged by an enemy.After the initial exchange, any subsequent attacks by a character during the same battle round will hit only on natural 6s. Faster Combat (additional optional rule) To speed things up, the first exchange of fire each Firefight phase counts both combatants as being in the open. Subsequent exchanges assume cover as normal. 70 Game Options Battle Flow Events (additional optional rule) When using the non-miniatures rules, you may roll on the table below at the beginning of each battle round.Actions produced by this table do not affect or prevent the characters’ ability to act later in the battle round. D100 ROLL BATTLE FLOW EVENT NOTES 01-06 Fleeting shot A randomly selected crew figure may immediately shoot at a target of your choice, if able to shoot. The shot is conducted at maximum weapon range, the firer counts as moving (if using a Heavy weapon), and the target is counted as being in Cover. The target may not return fire. 07-14 Running firefight Randomly select a character from each side. They immediately fire at each other. Fire is assumed to be simultaneous and conducted at a range equal to the shortest-ranged of the two weapons. Melee-only combatants cannot fire. Shots are counted as being in cover and both combatants count as moving. 15-22 Stumble into each other Randomly select a character from each side. Resolve a Brawl immediately. 23-29 Exposed! A random enemy figure immediately fires on a random crew member. The attack is conducted at maximum weapon range, from a stationary shooter, and versus cover. No return fire is permitted. 30-35 Spot Firing Position Add a known Firing Position to the Location list.A character in a Firing Position counts all targets in ranged combat as being in the open. 36-43 Find shortcut Randomly select a crew member.They may choose to move to any known Location, if desired. 44-50 Discover Location If any Locations are suspected, randomly discover one (add 1 known Location) 51-58 Difficult sight-lines During the Firefight phase this round, select one less enemy figure. 59-65 Kill zone Roll 1D6+10.All gunfire this battle round takes place at this range (in inches).Weapons unable to reach cannot fire. 66-72 Open ground All characters attempting to enter Brawling combat count as being in the open, if fired upon. 73-80 Intense fight During the Firefight phase this round, select one more enemy figure. 81-86 Careful maneuvering Choose an enemy figure.This figure cannot attack in the Firefight phase this round. 87-94 Covered retreat You may immediately retreat any number of crew members, if desired. 95-100 Separated No Brawling combat can be attempted this battle round. Melee-only enemies will not attack. 71 Game Options Morale The enemies will take Morale tests as normal at the end of the round. Morale failures will remove regular foes first, then Specialists. Retreat At the end of each round, you may attempt to retreat up to two of your crew. Roll 1D6 for each figure selected: A roll equal to or below their movement speed allows them to leave the battle (as if they had escaped over the battlefield edge). Characters with special movement options, such as when using a Jump Belt, can leave the battle automatically, and in addition to the two figures that could be retreated normally. Mission-specific Notes Access The console is a suspected Location. Soulless receive a +1 bonus to locating it. Acquire The item is in a suspected Location. It can then be picked up by a character moving there. Once the item is in your possession, the character must exit using the Retreat rules given above. Should the character become a casualty, the item becomes a new known Location. Defend No additional notes required. Deliver The delivery point is a suspected Location. If the item is dropped, it becomes a new known Location. Game Options Eliminate The target is not removed due to morale failures unless it is the last enemy on the table. Fight Off No additional notes required. Move Through The exit is a suspected Location. Once it is known, a crew member that moves to it can exit the battlefield, fulfilling the condition. Patrol Each objective is a suspected Location. An objective is checked by moving a crew member there. Protect The VIP is attached to a crew member and always accompanies them.While the crew member is on the field, the VIP cannot be attacked directly. If the crew member is removed as a casualty, the VIP must act as a regular character.The objective is a suspected Location. Secure The center of the battlefield is a suspected Location.Any crew figure that is at the Location AND is not attacked in Brawling combat for 2 consecutive rounds will achieve the objective. Search Assume there are 5 suspected Locations capable of holding the item. Game Options expanded missions This chapter provides a set of more detailed mission generation rules, offering a wider variety of missions to undertake.You can use either system in your campaign, and can swap freely between the two as you see fit. Missions generated using this system tend to be more challenging and time-consuming. To use the system, roll on each of the tables below, in turn. Note that some combinations may requiring some house-ruling, due to the wide range of possibilities. Objective overview This roll determines how many objectives will be present in the mission and which you must complete. D100 ROLL OVERVIEW NOTES 01-60 Generate a single objective.You must complete it to win the mission. No special notes 61-85 Generate two objectives, each with their own time constraints. Both must be completed to win the mission.They can be achieved in any order. If you do achieve both objectives, a randomly selected crew member receives +1 XP. 86-100 Generate two objectives each with their own time constraints.You must complete one of them to win the mission. You do not have to select in advance which objective you want to pursue, and there is no additional reward for completing both. expanded WA YS TO PLA Y 74 Game Options Specific objectives Roll once on this table once for each objective. Objectives marked with * are taken from the core rulebook, and any conditions apply exactly as explained there. Note that objectives cannot typically be completed automatically, even if all enemies are driven off. Objectives which are placed in the center of the table should be moved 1D6” in a random direction when placing them. D100 ROLL OBJECTIVE NOTES 01-08 Access* As core rulebook, p.90. 09-15 Acquire* As core rulebook, p.90. 16-20 Defend* As core rulebook, p.90. 21-28 Deliver* As core rulebook, p.90. 29-34 Eliminate* As core rulebook, p.90. 35-38 Fight off* As core rulebook, p.90. 39-45 Investigate Place 6 markers, scattered evenly around the table. None should be within 6” of a table edge.When a crew member moves within 1” of a marker, remove it from the table, then roll 1D6. If the roll is equal or below the number of markers removed so far, the objective has been achieved. 46-51 Move Through* As core rulebook, p.90. 52-57 Patrol* As core rulebook, p.90. 58-64 Protect* As core rulebook, p.91.. Ignore the reward for fast mission completion. 65-71 Rescue Place a figure randomly 1D6” from the center of the table. They will be ignored by the enemy until you move a crew member within 1”.At that point, they are treated like the VIP in the Protect mission description, and will act immediately in the phase in which they are freed. They must reach a table edge to complete the mission. 72-77 Secure* As core rulebook, p.91. 78-85 Search* As core rulebook, p.91. 86-92 Sneak Place the objective 1D6” from the center of the table.To complete the mission, a crew member must begin their activation within 1” of the objective and not within Line of Sight of any enemy. 93-100 Sweep Place three objectives spread evenly throughout the table. None may be within 6” of a table edge. If a crew member begins an activation within 1” of an objective, and no enemies are within 4”, the objective is removed. Once all three objectives have been removed, the mission is a success. 75 Game Options Time constraints For each objective, roll D100 to determine if there are any time constraints applied to it. If a time limit expires, that objective can no longer be achieved. If you have two objectives, a constraint is determined separately for each objective. D100 ROLL CONSTRAINT 01-15 No time limit. 16-45 The objective must be completed in the first 6 rounds. 46-70 The objective must be completed in the first 5 rounds 71-85 The objective must be completed in the first 4 rounds. 86-100 No time limit. Extraction unknown. Extraction Roll on this table to determine what actions you need to take to end the mission, once the objectives are completed. If you rolled Extraction unknown on the time constraints table, this roll is not made until you have completed the objectives. Of course, if you have cleared the table of enemies, you can leave the battlefield without needing to play every round in order. D100 ROLL EXTRACTION 01-30 The mission ends immediately. 31-50 You must exit across any battlefield edge. D100 ROLL EXTRACTION 51-70 You must exit across any battlefield edge within the next 3 rounds, or you will fail the mission. 71-85 You must exit across the battlefield edge you arrived from. 86-100 4 additional basic enemies arrive from the opposing battlefield edge. The mission ends when all figures exit across any battlefield edge OR after 3 game turns. Setup • Randomly select which side the enemy will be placed on. • If your table is 2 feet across, set up the enemy within 6” of their battlefield edge.Your crew will then arrive from the opposing battlefield edge in Round 1. • If your table is 3 feet across, the enemy sets up within 9” of their battlefield edge.Your crew is then set up within 9” of your own battlefield edge. Special Conditions: Patron Jobs Only If undertaking a Patron job, roll D100 on the table below to determine what special conditions apply. Restrictions on deploying a given piece of equipment mean you cannot use it during the mission, due to employer parameters or environmental concerns (such as excessive firepower destroying the area). Conditions marked with an * only apply to your crew, not any enemies encountered. D100 ROLL CONDITION NOTES 01-05 Collateral damage restriction* You cannot deploy any weapon with a Shot rating of 3 or higher, or a Damage rating of 2 or higher. 06-10 Gas leaks Any non-Area weapons-fire causes a cloud of gas to erupt around both shooter and target.The cloud is 2” across, persists for the rest of the round and blocks all visibility. 76 Game Options D100 ROLL CONDITION NOTES 11-14 Special ammo required* A special ammunition type is mandated.This is compatible with all non-Area weapons, but restricts all weapons to 1 Shot per round. 15-18 Explosive weapon restriction* No Area weapons may be deployed. 19-22 Hacking required to enter Your crew begin off-map. Each character must roll 6+ on a 1D6+Savvy test to enter the table from your battlefield edge. Roll at the start of each round. If all characters fail, select one to enter. 23-26 Have to look humane* No Melee weapons may be deployed. 27-30 Light weapons only* Only Pistol and Melee weapons may be deployed. 31-34 Cautious progress required* No Jump, Flight or Teleport devices may be deployed. 35-39 Heavy gear impractical* No Armor may be deployed. 40-44 Erratic lighting At the start of each phase (Quick Action, Enemy Action, Slow Action) roll 2D6 to determine maximum visibility in inches. 45-50 Electronic interference No Screens or Gunsights may be deployed. 51-55 Environmental protection gear required Except for Engineers and Soulless, no character may Dash. 56-59 Organics only* No Bots or Soulless may be deployed. 60-65 No Psionics* No Psionics may be deployed. 66-70 Flash flooding Put a marker on a random battlefield edge.At the end of each round, move the marker 1D3” towards the opposite battlefield edge. Anything between the marker and the initial battlefield edge is flooded.Any character in this area is washed away and removed from battle, but does not take any damage or post-battle Injury results. 71-76 Unstable ground At the end of each round, roll 1D6. On a 1, the area is shaken by tremors.All characters on the ground are Stunned.All characters on a terrain feature but within 1” of the terrain edge must roll 1D6, and if the roll exceeds their base movement speed, they fall down. 77-81 Watch your shots* No more than 3 crew may fire a weapon each round. 82-86 Scan before you progress* No more than 3 crew may move each round. 87-92 Special vision required Special helmet visors only allow the character a visual range of 8+Savvy”. (8” for enemies) 93-100 Strict rules of engagement* You may not shoot at any target unless it shot at your crew last round OR is currently within 6”. 77 Game Options Expanded Quest Progression The core rulebook system for Quests is bare- bones, as it was intended as a springboard for narrative or user-created scenarios. However, players who prefer a more rules-led experience can use this expanded method to add detail to their Quest scenarios. This system should be used for every step of a given Quest, but you may opt to use it for one Quest and then not for another as you see fit. What does not Change? • Quests are still acquired as per the normal rules. • The first battle in a Quest is fought as a normal mission. Quest Progression In Post-Battle Sequence Step 3. “Determine Quest Progress”, the system below is used in place of the core rulebook system. Roll 1D6, adding the number of Quest Rumors you have acquired so far. On a modified score of 6 or lower, roll on the Quest Progression table below to determine your next step. On a modified score of 7 or higher, you have reached the Quest Conclusion. Go to the Quest Conclusion section (p.80) 78 Game Options D100 ROLL QUEST PROGRESSION 01-10 You track down a source of possible information, but it may not be cheap. It costs 1D6 Credits. Until this has been paid, you cannot progress the Quest. Once it is paid, receive 1 Quest Rumor. 11-20 You need time to analyze the data you have found.You generate research points equal to the combined Savvy scores of your crew members,+1D6. If the total research points equals or exceeds 20, you have solved this step and receive 1 Quest Rumor. If not, you may continue accumulating research points every campaign turn until you reach the total. Until this has been done, you cannot progress the Quest. 21-28 You’ve figured out where to go, but you are not liking it one bit! Randomly determine an enemy as normal, but add +2 to the number encountered, and reduce their Panic range by -1.You may take on this battle at any time, but until you do, you cannot progress the Quest. If you Hold the Field, receive 1 Quest Rumor. 29-38 To progress is going to require a lot of hard work.A special Work on the Quest crew task becomes available.This has no effect other than to help complete this step. Once a total of 6 such tasks have been performed by your crew, receive 1 Quest Rumor.You can perform the actions over multiple campaign turns, but cannot progress the Quest until this is completed. 39-53 You need to find a data cache with information. Set up a normal Opportunity mission with the Access mission objective.The enemy is deployed within 3” of the objective with your crew setting up at least 12” from any enemy figures.When the mission is completed, receive 1 Quest Rumor. Until the mission is completed, you cannot progress the Quest. 54-65 You’ve located a data cache, but it’s in a very bad place. Set up a mission with no objectives. Your crew sets up in the middle of the table. Randomly determine a foe from the Roving Threats table (core rules, p.101). No enemies begin on the table, but every round, during the Enemy Action phase, one basic enemy arrives from the center of each of the four battlefield edges. At the end of each round, roll 1D6 and track the scores. If you have an Engineer among your crew, add +1 to the score. Once the score reaches 28, you can end the mission. Claim 1 Quest Rumor.You cannot progress the Quest until you complete this step. 66-80 A business contact might be able to help, but first: Set up a Protect mission.The enemy AI is changed to Aggressive. When the mission is completed, receive 1 Quest Rumor. Until the mission is completed, you cannot progress the Quest. 81-92 The enemy is massing.All future battles that are part of the Quest must add +1 to the number of enemies encountered (entry 54-65 above is unaffected).Add 1 Quest Rumor. 93-100 The enemy is becoming more determined.All future battles that are part of the Quest reduce the enemy Panic range by -1.Add 1 Quest Rumor. 79 Game Options Quest Conclusion Once you have unlocked the conclusion, you can go to it at any time. This final battle is always a Straight Up Fight with no special conditions. You must add +1 to the number of enemies encountered (plus any modifications from the Quest Progression table above), and the enemy is always accompanied by a Unique Individual.They will not test Morale during this battle – every opponent is here to fight to the death. Completing the Quest awards you: • When rolling for Credits, roll twice, pick the highest score, and add +1. • You may roll three times on the Loot table. • You may add +1 Story Point. Expanded Connections This expands the Connections rule on p.164 of the core rulebook, adding more features and variations, allowing for more detailed and elaborate stories to unfold in your campaign. Unlike the shorter system in the Appendix, the process presented here doesn’t require you to create your own scenarios. What is a Connection? A Connection is a link between the current mission or battle and a narrative element, typically a character or prior event which may have happened in your campaign, or which is revealed as part of the Connection.You will then play out a new event or side mission, building on that narrative. Checking for Connections Check for Connections any time you determine that you will be playing an Opportunity mission.While establishing the objectives and parameters, roll 1D6 with a 5 or 6 indicating that the mission has a Connection. Connections do not occur during Quest, Rival or Patron missions. 80 Game Options If you are playing your first game since purchasing this expansion,have a Connection happen automatically this campaign turn. Expanded Connections table Make a D6 roll and use the Expanded Connections table below (and resulting subtables) to determine the nature of the Connection: D6 CONNECTION IS 1-2 A person you’ve met (see Connections subtable 1) 3 A place you’ve been (see Connections subtable 2) 4 A job you’ve done (see Connections subtable 3) 5 A faction or group you have met before (see Connections subtable 4) 6 A personal Connection for a random crew member (see Connections subtable 5) Some events may allow you to turn the job down. If so, fight a random Opportunity mission without generating a Connection for it.These events are marked with an * on the subtables below. Seize any opportunity immediately next campaign turn, or the option disappears. Notes: When a result says to play a particular mission, it refers to mission objectives in the core rulebook. It may refer you to a specific mission table (such as the Patron Mission Objectives table).This can be replaced with the expanded table in this book, if desired. When a result instructs you to fight a Roving Threat, Criminal Element, Hired Muscle, or Interested Party, it is referring to a random encounter rolled for from that encounter table in the core rulebook. No-roll option If you prefer to reduce dice-rolling, a Connection occurs any time you play an Opportunity mission AND the prior Opportunity mission did not have a Connection (in other words, every other time). Designer note If you prefer to maintain variety, swap a result you have already had this campaign for the first new result in the same subtable. Game Options Subtable 1 D6 NOTES 1* An old friend is in trouble and needs to be saved.The enemy is generated from the Criminal Elements table (core rules, p.94).You will play out the Assault objective (from the Rival Attacks table, core rules, pp.91-92). If you fail or decline the mission, your friend gets killed, causing the loss of 1 Story Point. If you succeed, the enemy automatically becomes a Rival but you may roll up a new character (using all character creation tables as normal), as your friend decides to join you. 2 An associate gave you the location of a suspected data cache. Play an unlicensed salvage job. If you investigate all Points of Interest, add 2 Quest Rumors. 3* Someone you’ve worked for in the past has reached out to collect on a favor owed.The job will use the Patron Mission Objectives table, and any objective must be achieved in 6 rounds. The enemy will be accompanied by 1 additional Specialist. If you achieve the job successfully, your contact pays you 2 additional Credits.You may choose to turn the job down. 4 You got a cryptic message from a friend who has gotten in over their head. Set up the scenario (with a Fight Off objective) against an enemy from the Criminal Elements table (core rules, p.94). After setting up, randomly select a standard enemy that is actually your friend.They will move as per normal AI but will not attack the crew. If any crew member moves within 4” of them, they immediately switch sides and fight alongside you for the rest of the battle (counting as having a Reactions score of 1). If they survive the battle, or you manage to move them off the table-edge, claim +1 Story Point, and you can keep any weapons they carried. 5* A old associate of yours wants payback on their former organization. If you accept the job, set up an Eliminate objective against an enemy from the Hired Muscle enemy table (core rules, p.96). The enemy will have 2 additional basic troopers on the table. If you complete the mission, you receive one additional Loot roll. If the mission takes more than 5 rounds, you must add the enemy as a Rival as they have time to identify you. 6* You received an “anonymous” tip that could only have come from one person.This usually means trouble. If you agree to take the job on, play a Search objective.You will face 2 fewer enemies than normal, but at the end of Round 4, 1D6 additional enemies arrive from the center of a randomly selected table edge. If 5 or 6 enemies arrive, 1 of them will be a specialist.The rest will be basic enemies. If you achieve the objective, you receive one additional Loot roll. 82 Game Options Subtable 2 The prior location can be any place you can think of; for example, it may have been a place your captain visited before the campaign began. However, it will be most fun if it is a place you fought a battle during the current campaign, in which case set up the table to resemble the original layout as much as possible. D6 NOTES 1* Your research suggests that the location was hiding something of interest. If you choose to go back, play out a Search mission against an enemy from the Hired Muscle table (core rules, p.96). The enemy is automatically accompanied by a Unique Individual. If you find the objective, gain 3 Quest Rumors immediately. 2* A prior mission site has been overrun by critters, and you are worried the situation will escalate. Roll on the Roving Threat table (core rules, p.101) to determine what is crawling around. If you choose to go back, play a Defend mission and add +1 to the number encountered. If the mission fails or you decline, and it was an Invasion Threat, the world you are presently on is invaded automatically (even if you are no longer on the same world, they were using it as a staging ground for sector-wide attacks). If the mission fails or you decline and the enemy was not an Invasion Threat, all future Invasion rolls on this world are subject to a +1 modifier. 3* Bad guys have set up in the ruins of the battle, and you could earn a few pennies turning them in. If you take the offer, play an Eliminate mission against an enemy chosen from the Criminal Elements list (core rules, p.94).You receive +2 Credits for completing the job. 4* One of your crew (randomly select them, but they cannot be the captain) confides that they have a secret reason to go back. If you indulge them, play an Acquire objective. If the crew member in question is the one to carry the item off the battlefield, they earn 3 XP and you receive 1 Story Point. Note that if the crew member in question is a Swift, they (and any other Swift crew) will go back without you if you do not agree to help. In this case, play out a separate mission using only those characters.They will receive no Credits for the mission but receive +2 XP each. 5 Just happens to be the same place… surely it’s just a coincidence, right? Fight a Rival battle using the Ambush mission. Pick a random past Rival that has come back to take one more shot at you (literally!). If you have no past Rivals, pick a current one or roll a random opponent (an enemy you made before the campaign started).The enemy brought 2 additional Specialists to this fight, and their Panic range is reduced by 1 (so 1-3 becomes 1-2, 1-2 becomes a 1, and a 1 remains unchanged). If you walk out of here the winner, your captain earns +3 XP. 6* The site is abandoned, but you suspect there may be some interesting bits to scavenge by now. Play an unlicensed salvage job, against a Roving Threat (see core rules, p.101). You may choose not to take the job. 83 Game Options Subtable 3 The prior job can be any previous job you did during this campaign. Pick one that captures your imagination, or which was particularly tough to win.Alternatively, select the mission you played 3 campaign turns ago. D6 NOTES 1 Some random grunt has decided to make revenge their primary goal. The enemy type you fought during the job becomes a Rival and immediately attacks you. The enemy is accompanied by an Enemy Boss from the Unique Individual table (core rules, p.105) in addition to all normal numbers. If you kill the Boss, remove the Rival automatically, otherwise they will follow the normal rules for Rivals. 2* Your employer kept your info in their cyber-dex. Generate an objective from the Patron Mission Objectives table (core rules, p.89).You may roll on the Patron job Danger Pay and Benefits tables (core rules, p.83), to see what they offer.The enemy will have 1 additional Specialist. If you turn the job down after generating the details, no harm is done. 3 Whoever you fought against had a powerful sponsor that has you in their sights. Set up a random mission as normal.The enemy adds a Freelancer Unique Individual that is removed from the table after Round 5. If you kill the Freelancer, claim 2 Quest Rumors. 4* You picked up some encrypted intel during the job, and have finally been able to decipher it. Discard all Quest Rumors and begin a Quest immediately. For the duration of the Quest, roll 1D6 during every mission: On a 6, the enemy is accompanied by a Secret Agent. If you want to stay safe, you can sell the intel instead, earning 3 Credits. 5* You receive a strange message referencing the job, and imploring you to meet up. If you decide to go, play a Protect mission, but the VIP is a Corporate Slick (core rules, p.172). If they survive, and you complete the mission, your next campaign turn will be an Opportunity mission with a randomly generated Connection. If you complete your objective in the next mission, add +1 Story Point. 6* The contact that gave you that job has dug up some dirt on their employer. If you want to take the offer, play out an Acquire mission against a Hired Muscle enemy (core rules, p.96).The enemies are particularly well-trained guards, and reduce their Panic range by 1. If they would be Toughness 3, raise it to 4. If you complete the mission in 5 rounds or less, earn 1D6 Credits. 84 Game Options Subtable 4 D6 NOTES 1* A random Rival has offered a ceasefire if you give them a hand with something. If you agree, fight a random Opportunity mission, and victory allows you to remove the old Rival from your roster. The enemy force reduces their Panic range by 1, and will include 1 additional basic enemy.You will be accompanied by one basic figure from your Rivals force, with a Reaction score of 2 for the purpose of the mission, and will fight alongside you.They leave after the mission is over, however. 2* An employee wishes to defect from a Patron you have worked for in the past. Play an Acquire mission, but instead of a package, the “item” is a Scientist (core rules, p.172). They are placed on the table when you “pick up” the package, and act as part of your crew for the rest of the mission. If you rescue them, the Patron refuses to ever work with you again, but your grateful new contact gives you a Loot roll as they managed to grab a package on the way out.You may also add 1 Story Point.You can opt to turn down the job. 3* A former Patron has need of you. Pick a prior Patron, who offers you a job immediately. All details are rolled up normally. 4 You are not sure if you are being set up.You will fight against the same enemy you fought last mission (if it was a Roving Threat, fight in the same location, but against a randomly determined enemy from the Hired Muscle table instead – core rules, p.96), but they are automatically accompanied by a Secret Agent Unique Individual (core rules, p.97), and all Panic ranges are reduced by 1 (meaning a 1-3 is counted as 1-2, 1-2 becomes 1 and 1 becomes 0). 5 A former employer gives you a tip to something interesting that one of their agents discovered. Roll twice for Notable Sights in the mission (core rules, p.89), but at the end of Round 4, any sight that has not been acquired is removed from the table. 6 You’ve come across information that would be valuable to a random former Patron. If you win the mission, you can claim the data. If you hand it over, they become a Persistent Patron. If you opt to sell the data on the black market, add 2 Credits. 85 Game Options Subtable 5 Randomly select which crew member is involved.This cannot be the captain of the crew. You can turn the job down, but if you achieve your objective, the crew member in question gains +2 XP, and you gain +1 Story Point. D6 NOTES 1* Your crew has some old enemies making their lives miserable, and would appreciate some help. Fight an Eliminate mission against a Criminal Element (core rules, p.94).A random basic enemy (non-specialist, non-leader) adds +1 to each of Toughness and Combat Skill. 2* Your crew has friends/allies/relatives that could use a hand keeping their colony/farmstead/facility safety. Play a Patrol mission against a Roving Threat (core rules, p.101). There is no chance of Invasion due to this encounter. 3* Something was stolen from their family/allies/unit, and they have finally tracked down the location. Play an Access mission against Criminal Elements (core rules, p.94).The enemy is accompanied by an Enemy Boss Unique Individual (core rules, p.105). 4* They need to make contact with someone important to them. Play a Move Through mission against a Roving Threat (core rules, p.101). Add one basic enemy to the number encountered. 5* Well, someone upset the wrong people! You can either hand over your crew member (remove them from your roster), or slug it out. If you fight, generate a Hired Muscle enemy (core rules, p.96) and add 2 specialists AND 2 basic enemies to the number encountered. You will play out a Raid mission from the Rival Attacks table (core rules, pp.91-92). 6* Your crew member found a lead on something promising. Play out a Secure objective. If you succeed, add 1 Quest Rumor. 86 Game Options This section modifies combat to be more dramatic, particularly resulting in more movement during a firefight. It also addresses a slight imbalance between the rules for ranged and melee-only combatants. It is intended to be used with the Dramatic Weapons table in this book (see pp.88-89), but can be used on its own as well. Adjusted Shooting Change the shooting table to be as follows: Target is in the open 5+ Target is in cover		 6+ Duck Back Being shot at can be disconcerting, and it takes nerves of steel to calmly return fire. At the end of each phase, any figure that was shot at will test for Duck Back if they meet all three of the conditions listed: • At least one firer was more than 6” away. • They were NOT hit by any shots. • They are not a robot Make a single D6 test, regardless of the number of shots aimed at the character: Characters in the open will Duck Back on a 3+ Characters in or directly behind Cover will Duck Back on a 4+ A character Ducking Back will immediately try to move to the closest location that improves their level of protection (moving from the open to Cover, or from Cover to out- of-sight) against at least one figure that fired upon them. If the character is unable to improve their position in this move, they will instead move to the most distant position they can reach that offers the same level of protection against each attacker. Ducking back is a bonus action and does not affect the ability of the character to act normally during their activation. Figures only check for Duck Back once after each phase, though an enemy being shot at (and being missed) in both the Quick and Slow Action phases could potentially Duck Back twice. Lunge Attack When a ravenous Krorg is bearing down on you, you’d better not miss. A Lunge attack may be carried out if all of the following apply: • A ranged attack is done against a target within 6” AND all Shots miss. • The target character has no ranged weapon OR has at least one weapon with the Melee trait. • The target character does not carry any weapon with the Heavy trait. If an enemy has no ranged weapons or their effective Combat Skill (including Melee weapon bonus) exceeds that of the firer, they will carry out the Lunge. Player characters may choose to do so if desired. DRAMATIC COMBAT 87 Game Options A Lunging character is immediately moved a full move towards the shooter, attempting to enter Brawling combat. Lunging characters may ignore up to 2” of movement reduction (due to obstacles or similar). A given character can only Lunge once per round. Lunging is a bonus action and does not affect the ability of the character to act normally during their activation. Dramatic Weapons This updated weapons table tweaks the weapon selection for a couple of reasons: First, it fine-tunes a few weapons that were a little too strong or which could use a boost. More importantly, it also makes the weapons feel a bit more distinctive on the battlefield. If using this weapons table, you should also use the “Adjusted Shooting” hit numbers from the Dramatic Combat section of this chapter (p.87). WEAPON RANGE SHOTS DAMAGE TRAITS Auto rifle 24” 2 0 — Beam pistol 8” 1 1 Pistol, Critical Blade Brawl — 1 Melee Blast pistol 6” 1 1 Pistol Blast rifle 18” 1 1 — Boarding saber Brawl — 2 Melee, Elegant Brutal melee weapon Brawl — 2 Melee, Clumsy Cling fire pistol 9” 2 1 Focused, Burn Colony rifle 18” 1 0 — Dazzle grenade 6” NA NA Area, Stun, Single-use Duelling pistol 6” 1 0 Pistol, Critical Flak gun 9” 2 1 Focused, Shrapnel Frakk grenade 6” — 0 Area, Single use Fury rifle 24” 1 2 Heavy, Piercing, Shockwave Glare sword Brawl — 1 Melee, Elegant, Piercing Hand cannon 6” 1 2 Pistol Hand flamer 8” — 1 Area, Burn Hand gun 9” 1 0 Pistol Hand laser 9” 1 0 Pistol, Snap Shot Hold out pistol 4” 1 0 Melee Designer notes While many weapons have seen minor tweaks,of particular note are pistols, which should feel more like proper close- quarters weapons,and melee weapons, which have received small boosts across the board.Area weapons no longer have inherent Shots on their profile,instead dealing damage only through the Area rule,which should make them faster to use in play. 88 Game Options WEAPON RANGE SHOTS DAMAGE TRAITS Hunting rifle 30” 1 1 Heavy, Critical Hyper blaster 24” 3 1 Overheat Infantry laser 30” 1 0 Snap Shot Machine pistol 6” 2 0 Pistol, Focused Marksman’s rifle 36” 1 0 Critical Military rifle 24” 1 0 — Needle rifle 18” 1 0 Critical, Piercing Plasma rifle 20” 2 1 Focused, Piercing, Overheat Power claw Brawl — 3 Melee, Clumsy, Piercing Rattle gun 24” 3 0 Heavy Ripper sword Brawl — 2 Melee Scrap pistol 7” 1 0 Pistol Shatter Axe Brawl — 3 Melee, Clumsy, Shockwave Shell gun 18” — 0 Area Shotgun 8” 1 1 Critical Suppression maul Brawl — 2 Melee, Stun TRAIT NOTES Area Select a target point within range. Every figure within 2” of the target point are hit on an unmodified D6 roll of 4+ (5+ if partially obscured from the blast). Burn Non-robot targets that are hit but survive will move a full move in a random direction. This does not apply to hits deflected by armor. Clumsy -1 to Brawling rolls if opponent has higher Speed. Critical A natural 6 on the Hit roll will inflict 2 hits on the target. Elegant When Brawling, the user may reroll the die. Enemies will reroll if they have a lower total than their opponent. Note that K’Erin player characters do not benefit from this rule. Focused All shots must be directed against the same target. Heavy -1 to hit penalty if the firer moved this round (does not affect Area weapons). Cannot Lunge (see p.87). Melee +2 to Brawling rolls. Overheat If the weapon was fired in the previous round, 1 less Shot is fired (non-cumulative). Piercing Ignore Armor Saving Throws. Pistol +1 to Brawling rolls. +1 to hit within 6”. Shockwave A target that survives a hit is thrown 1D6” directly backwards. Shrapnel All shots hit on a 5+ regardless of hit modifiers, skill or Cover. Single-use The item can be used only once and must be deducted from the available supply. The Panic Fire rule cannot be used with Single-use weapons. Snap shot +1 to hit within 6” (Cumulative with Pistol). Stun Any target hit is Stunned, even if the attack was deflected by Armor. 89 Game Options Grid-based movement allows more freeform movement by dividing the battlefield into several Grid spaces,simplifying movement and positioning in combat while maintaining the normal movement system for close-quarters fighting.It offers a faster and more free-flowing experience in the opening stages of a battle. This method is particularly suitable if you have set up the battlefield as the blocks of a town and city,but is practical for most terrain types. Players should note that while this option is comparable to normal game play,some differences are inevitable: As such,a given character,weapon or ability may be slightly stronger or weaker than when using the normal movement system. You do not have to commit to using this system for every battle of a given campaign.The movement system used can be changed as often as you want,with different battles using different movement systems if desired. The Battle Space The play area is divided into a grid with 3 or 4 squares along each side (for a total of 9,12 or 16 sectors depending on whether your grid is 3x3,3x4,or 4x4).Typically,you want the squares to be 8-9” across. The grid spaces should be roughly square.You may mark them with small beads,markers, or pieces of scatter terrain,or just eyeball the rough positions.The size of each square will depend on the number you have chosen for your grid and the size of your gaming table. When placing terrain,objectives,and other things on the table,it is common to set up terrain within the grid,but there is no specific need to do so.Terrain can be placed in any manner that looks natural and interesting,and can cross boundaries. PLAYER’S TABLE EDGE Above: 3x3" table,4x4 grid = 9" square Initial Deployment When deploying the two sides for an encounter,all figures must set up in a square that touches their assigned table edge. You cannot set up a figure more than halfway into a grid square.For example,if a sector is 8” across,figures must begin within 4” of the table edge (it is fine to eyeball this rather than measure exactly).Otherwise,figures can be set up freely,and you are not required to place every figure in the same square. FIGURE SET-UP GRID-BASED MOVEMENT GAME OPTions 90 Figure Status When a figure is selected to act,the square it is currently within is determined to be either Open or at Close Quarters. A Close Quarters square has enemy figures within it (regardless of the range between opposing figures),while an Open square only has figures belonging to one side.If a scenario involves neutral third parties,their presence does not affect this status while neutral. Note: The status is determined at the moment of activation, and can change during a battle round. For example, if Figure 1 activates, fires, and removes the only enemy in a square as a casualty, the square is Open for Figure 2’s activation. Multi-squares A Multi-square exists when the terrain within the grid space on the table contains more than one square.This happens in two circumstances,both of which could be present in the same square: • When a square contains a structure with an interior space that can be used in the game (such as removable roofs on buildings or transferring miniatures to floor plans).The interior space is considered its own sub-square. • When a square contains buildings or other terrain that has multiple,usable levels of height (such as a building with a flat roof that figures can access and fight from). Each height level is considered its own sub-square. When using multi-squares,entry points must be designated that allow travel between the sub-squares.This is usually a ladder,doorway, elevator,or similar. For a complex multi-square,you could even have sub-squares that are only reachable from a specific sub-square.You could even have a sub-square that connects to two different main squares.(Note that this can get out of hand quickly!) Example: One of my sectors which I identify as Sector 3) has an interior building which I will set up using a separate floor plan (Sector 3b), a rooftop landing pad (Sector 3c),and a flat roof overlooking the landing pad (Sector 3d). The interior is reachable from the exterior door. A ladder connects 3b and 3c,and a flight of stairs connects 3c and 3d. This is a rather ambitious setup for a typical Five Parsecs battle,and is probably better suited to a custom scenario with lots of troops! During play,each sub-square is considered independent and is considered its own square for all game purposes except where directly stated otherwise. Note: If this rule option sounds too abstract for you,put it to one side at first.Multi-squares are well suited for longer custom scenarios where you might have to fight your way inside a research facility or similar. Flanking If setting up enemies using the Half Flank or Bolstered Flank deployment variables from page 45 of this book,the flanking force is set up in the second square counting from the enemy table edge.If a scenario requires any figure to arrive from the flank,they are placed in a similar fashion. GAME Options 91 Open Movement If the square is Open,the figure may move in one of the following fashions: • Move to an adjacent square or accessible sub-square If the square is in one of the four “keyboard” directions (up,down,left, right) the figure is assumed to be moving normally and may still act.If the square is diagonal,the figure is assumed to have Dashed. • Move within the square The figure can move to any location within the current square.It is assumed to move normally and may still act. Deploying When a figure enters another square with Open movement,they are said to be Deploying. The figure may Deploy anywhere within their base move of the edge of the square they came from (corner for diagonal moves,entry point for sub-squares).Figures may Deploy directly into a Brawl. For example,a figure with Speed: 4 could deploy anywhere within 4” of the point they enter from. Close Quarters Movement If the square is at Close Quarters,movement is conducted using the core rules regardless of whether a border is crossed. A figure that moves from a Closed to an Open square conducts their entire activation based on the Closed square movement rules. 92 GAME OPTions Proximity Questions All questions of whether a figure is within a certain distance from another figure, objectives,etc.,are handled using core rules methods.Such proximity may extend across squares and is not affected by the status of a square. Example: If a game rule requires being within 6” of something,a figure 5” away in an adjacent sector still counts. Ranged Combat Ranged combat is conducted using the core rules,including range,Line of Sight,and so on. This means positioning within the square is important. Brawling Brawling combat is initiated when a figure moves into contact with an opponent, regardless of the method of movement. This typically happens during Close Quarters movement. Unusual Movement Any unusual movement methods such as Jump or Teleport functions as normal movement using the core rules. Items and abilities that adjust standard movement speeds apply to Deployment ranges and Close Quarters movement,but do not otherwise affect grid movement. 93 GAME Options Using Terrain Generators The following terrain generators are supplied for people who prefer a randomly generated table setup.This can be used to provide an additional challenge,as inspiration for terrain building projects or for players who prefer to have less direct control over aspects of the scenario.You could even generate several tables in advance and sketch them out on index cards,giving you a library of ready-to-use terrain setups for when you want to game but wish to focus your creativity elsewhere. Exact sizes for terrain pieces will depend on your gaming table and collection.A 2x2-foot table will need smaller pieces than a 3x3- foot table,for example.If your final table feels a little too sparse,there’s a good chance your terrain pieces are too small; you can compensate for this by adding more “scatter” (small single pieces like rocks,barrels,or individual trees). To use the generator,work through the following steps in turn: Step 1: Quarters and Sectors Divide the table into four quarters,and then subdivide each quarter into four sectors of roughly equal size (for a total of 16 sectors). If you wish,mark the sectors in any suitable manner,but eyeballing it is fine as well.This does not have to be precise and,if some sectors or quarters are a little bigger or small,it won’t matter that much. You should also find the approximate center of the table and place a die or small marker there. Terrain Generation Customizing the Terrain Tables You can easily customize these tables in a number of ways: • You can swap out entries for options that you like better or which fit your terrain collection better. • You can create a new terrain table by modifying the entries in an existing table to fit a new style (such as a jungle or ice world). • You might “cycle” through terrain to keep things fresh, changing an entry after each game. Gaming Mats If you have a terrain mat,you can still use this system.Count the terrain that is already marked on the map,reduce the number of terrain dice,and then add additional pieces in the open spaces.The combination of 2D and 3D terrain might take a moment to get used to,but it can give you a lot of flexibility.If such a mix bothers you, make sure to purchase a mat without pre-printed terrain. 94 GAME OPTions Step 2: The Center The center of the table always contains a notable terrain feature.Roll D6 on the relevant Notable Feature table and place this feature so that it partially covers the center of the table. The notable feature does not have to be placed precisely over the center,and can be aligned in any direction you like as long as part of the feature covers the center point. Example: Using the Industrial tables,I roll a 5,indicating a cargo area.I have a collection of shipping containers that I arrange in a rough square,with the corner covering the center of the table. Step 3: The Quarters Work through the quarters one at a time in any order you like.For each quarter,roll four D6s and consult the Regular Features table for your chosen terrain type to determine what features will be present. You can assign the features to the sectors as you see fit,but each sector must have at least part of a terrain feature located within it.It is okay for a terrain feature to overlap two sectors. The size of features can be selected based on what you have available,but should not be longer and wider than the size of one sector, and most can be smaller than that. Example: Continuing with my Industrial table,I roll 1,2, 4,and 5 for the first quarter.I pick out a length of wall,a colony building,some fuel barrels, and a random robot I have sitting around.I put the building in the center of the quarter with the wall extending off one corner.The fuel barrels get strewn around the “front yard” of the building,with the robot being placed a small distance away from the building to look like it’s a machine they use regularly. Step 4: Add Scatter Terrain After you finish each quarter,add D6 pieces of scatter terrain: Scatter terrain can be a fuel barrel,crate,rock,piece of rubble,single tree or similar,and should be about big enough that a single human figure can take cover behind them. Place this scatter terrain anywhere within the quarter to add a few items to hide behind while crossing open ground,or simply to make an area more visually appealing. Step 5: Final Evaluation Once you have placed everything on the table, take a moment to step back and evaluate things: You may realize that the table would look better if a couple of pieces were swapped or moved around.You might also realize that one particular piece doesn’t look like it fits and should be replaced with something more appropriate.For example,you might realize that some trees ended up next to an industrial feature,and swap them out for a pile of crates and oil drums instead. Make any tweaks and changes at this point to get a really fun table.You do not have to stick to the sector and quarter rules at this stage. If things feel cluttered,you are usually going to be just fine: The game improves by having a lot of terrain to crawl between. You might also add some cosmetic touches at this stage,such as some sand to mark a road,a few tumbleweeds,bits of shrubbery,or whatever else you have in mind.If in doubt, consider scattering a few clumps of modeling flock,or some small pebbles.These factors are mostly for show but do make the game more immersive to look at. 95 GAME Options Terrain Tables Four types of terrain table are provided: • Industrial (covering the typical semi-urban semi-factory look that’s popular for Five Parsecs tables) • Wilderness (natural features with lots of foliage).This option can also be employed for waste ground areas within otherwise urban settings. • Alien Ruin (exploring old,strange sites). This option may also be applied to undercity areas where one settlement has been built on the foundations of an earlier,alien civilization. • Crash Site (a location where a shuttle or craft wrecked). These tables can also be easily modified to create your own custom terrain generators, whether to fit your own collection better or creating brand new environments to play in. Industrial Site Industrial battle areas are a great way to get some use out of random construction vehicle models or robot kits you have sitting around. They can often be used as is,or you might modify them to fit your intended visual theme. Model buildings can be found in a variety of materials,but creating your own from polystyrene foam or card board is easy and fun. Be aware that spray paints,and cyanoachrylate adhesives such as Super Glue can melt polystyrene foam (according to your wishes or otherwise!) – if doing so,make sure you are working in a well-ventilated area. 96 GAME OPTions D6 NOTABLE FEATURES 1 Large structure or facility. 2 Cluster of industrial items such as barrels, machinery,or similar. 3 Open space surrounded by fencing, barricades,or low walls. 4 Landing pad,loading bay,or similar open space with some scatter terrain. 5 Cargo area with containers,crates,civilian vehicles,or similar. 6 Single large structure or two medium structures. D6 REGULAR FEATURES 1 Linear obstacles such as a fences,railings, or barricades. 2 Building.If multiple buildings are present,they should be placed near each other or can be traded for a single larger structure. 3 Open ground with a few incidental items (sign post,boulder,or similar).If more than one area of open ground exist in a quarter,one of them should be a hill. 4 Several pieces of spread-out scatter terrain,such as boulders,barrels,vehicle parts,or similar. 5 Open ground with a single central piece such as a statue,tree,or similar. 6 Industrial or urban terrain such as shipping containers,a cluster of barrels,or a large civilian vehicle. Wilderness Whether you are building it yourself or buying ready-made pieces,earth-style trees and bushes are easy to find guides and material for.Alien plant life can do wonders in making a world seem suitably science fiction.Plastic plants for fish tanks are a great source for strange looking plants,often in bright colors and quite cheap.Fish tank decorations also include oddly shaped rock formations,which again look great on a sci-fi gaming table. You can also experiment with adding paint to “Earth-like” plant models to change their colors. D6 NOTABLE FEATURES 1 Forested hill or high ground 2 Large,difficult-to-cross feature such as a swamp 3 Group of rock formations 4 Forested area with paths to traverse 5 Large but fairly bare hill 6 Single building,ruin,or similar D6 REGULAR FEATURES 1 Difficult to pass feature such as swamp or dense forest 2 Rock formation surrounded by plants 3 Cluster of plants 4 Rock formation 5 Open space with scattered single plants 6 Natural linear feature such as a hedgerow or line of trees 97 GAME Options Alien Ruin Digging through the rubble of long-gone civilizations is classic adventure stuff,and a good excuse for some odd terrain features. These can also be adapted to be the ruins of an abandoned colony if you prefer.While it may be a big demand on your terrain collection,this type of table will look better if the structures have a style distinctive from your normal game features. D6 NOTABLE FEATURES 1 Scatter terrain with plants mixed in 2 Large pile of rubble and debris 3 Large,ruined building,possibly multi-story 4 Remnants of a landing pad or town plaza, but overgrown with plants 5 Ruined tower surrounded by rubble 6 Large statue surrounded by plants or rubble D6 REGULAR FEATURES 1 Odd feature such as crystals,weird plants, or similar 2 Ruined single building 3 Partial ruin (such as half of a building surrounded by rubble) 4 Open space with a few items of scatter 5 Strange statue or vehicle wreck 6 Scattered plants with some rubble Crash Site Freelancers like to snoop around crash sites, whether to rescue and aid survivors or to loot the wreckage.If a large craft goes down,it is likely to have scattered debris for miles.As such,you don’t need to build a giant spaceship model to use this terrain type.If you do have a crashed ship model,you can skip the Notable Features roll and stick the wreck in the center of the table. D6 NOTABLE FEATURES 1 Structure with damage (or reduced to a heap of rubble) 2 Cluster of natural features (rocks,plants) with wreckage among them 3 Forested area on fire 4 Pile of wreckage 5 Large chunk of wreckage in crater 6 Large crater D6 REGULAR FEATURES 1 Open with scatter.Mixture of natural features and wreckage. 2 Scattered bits of wreckage 3 Larger piece of wreckage 4 Crater 5 Natural feature (rocks,plants,hedgerow) 6 Open ground,with smoke from fire GAME OPTions 98 CasualtY TABLES Typically combat is a quick and brutal affair: If you hit and the damage roll equals or exceeds Toughness,the figure is removed unless they can succeed in a saving throw (which many figures lack and the ones that do have one rarely have a high chance of success). If you want combat to be a bit longer and less predictable,you can use the casualty tables in this chapter to shake things up.They introduce a random outcome when a figure would become a casualty,and tend to keep combatants in the fight longer than normal. How to Use Whenever a figure would become a casualty due to an event or attack that inflicts damage through the standard mechanics,roll D6 roll on the appropriate table below.Use the most suitable category for the type of creature.The Regular column is used for your crew figures and normal enemies (including specialists). The Boss column is used for your crew captain, any enemy leader and unique personalities. If an attack inflicts multiple hits on a character, make all the Toughness rolls first,then roll on the Casualty table once for each attack that equals or exceeds Toughness.ONLY the single highest result from the casualty rolls is applied. Example: My crew member lights up a Converted trooper with a rattle gun and inflicts two hits that beat Toughness.I roll a 2 and a 5 on the casualty table meaning the 5 is applied. The Converted is removed from play. “Okay,so they fell into a lava pit in deep space while a Tamurian Skull Exploder erupted inside them.And then the black hole swallowed the remains while…” If a game event results in a character automatically becoming a casualty without a Toughness roll,the casualty tables are not used. The character is removed from play normally. Narrative Styles While the default is that the tables are applied to both friendly and enemy figures,you don’t have to do it that way.For a more heroic game, apply the rules to your crew but not the enemy. This can also work well if you like to play with a smaller crew than normal or if you like to add a few extra bad guys for an epic firefight.If you find this approach to casualties makes things a little on the easy side,apply a few other options to tweak things. For a narrower application,use these rules only for Boss-type characters. Casualties & INJURIES GAME Options 99 Table 1: Humanoid Combatants REGULAR BOSS OUTCOME EFFECT 1-2 1-2 Dazed On their next activation,they do not remove a Stun marker automatically.Ignore this result if already Dazed. 3-4 3-5 Wounded The character moves at half speed; Reduce their Combat Skill by 1 (this can potentially reduce you to -1). If Wounded again,they are a Goner (see below) 5-6 6 Goner The character is removed from play. Table 2: Cybernetic Combatants (including Soulless, Converted and Bots) REGULAR BOSS OUTCOME EFFECT 1-2 1-2 Temporary shutdown On their next activation,do not remove a Stun marker automatically.Ignore this result if already shut down. 3-4 3-5 Damaged Mark the figure with a token.Every time it activates, roll D6,with a 6 indicating that it falls apart and is removed from play.Multiple instances have no effect. Add +1 to future casualty rolls. 5-6 6 Goner The character is removed from play. Table 3: Beasts and Monsters REGULAR BOSS OUTCOME EFFECT 1-2 1-2 Knock down / Drive off Move 2” directly away from the firer per hit inflicted by the attack. 3-4 3-5 Bleeding Roll D6 at the end of the character’s next activation: On a 1,the Bleeding condition ends.On a 6,they are a Goner. Add +1 to future injury rolls. Multiple instances have no effect. 5-6 6 Goner The character is removed from play. All in a Day’s Work Any Bleeding / Damaged / Wounded condition is removed at the end of the battle and has no long-term effects. Critical Hit (additional optional rule) If the Hit roll was a natural 6,roll one additional time on the Casualty table and use the highest result as normal. Perceptive players will note that when shooting at targets in cover,inexperienced shooters often only hit on a 6 and thus always score a Critical Hit.This is fine: After all,if you are peeking out from behind cover you are exposing your head and chest,which would be critical locations if struck. GAME OPTions 100 DETAILED POST-BATTLE INJURIES Some players seem to get excited when a game offers gruesome ways for their characters to be maimed,mangled,and dismembered.The injury table on the following page can be used in place of the one in the core rules,and allows more detailed outcomes for getting hurt. Synthetic characters are less squishy and tend to have interchangeable parts,so they continue using the core rules Bot Injury table (core rules,p.122) Some injuries will now require medical treatment to recover completely.This can be paid for when conducting your normal healing/ Sick Bay recovery. To determine if a particular planet has the required facilities roll 1D6: ROLL RESULT 1-2 A crew member must take a campaign action and roll 6+ on a 1D6+Savvy test. Success indicates you have managed to find an off-worlder willing and able to treat you after paying an additional 1 Credit fee (on top of the normal cost). 3-6 The world has suitable medical facilities AND makes them accessible to people like you. GAME Options 101 D100 ROLL RESULT EFFECTS CAMPAIGN TURNS IN SICK BAY 0-10 Death The character is slain.A random item they carried is damaged. NA 11-15 Critical strike Is the character wearing Armor? If so,they survive, but the armor is damaged.Otherwise,they are slain. 1D6+3 16-20 Extensive injury The character requires specialized treatment.Roll 1D6+1 to determine the cost in Credits.Until the cost has been paid, the character cannot take crew tasks or fight.The Sick Bay recovery time begins once they have received treatment. Identical to medical cost 21-30 Item hit Randomly select a carried item and roll 1D6. On a 1-4 it is damaged.On a 5-6 it is destroyed. – 31-40 Lingering injury Note down that the character has a Lingering Injury once they recover.Before every mission,roll 1D6: On a 1,their old injury is acting up and they cannot participate in the battle.On a 2-5,they are fine.On a 6,they are finally over it and are fully recovered.A character could potentially have multiple lingering injuries and would roll for each in turn. 1D6+1 41-50 Injured arm Count the character’s Combat Skill as 1 point lower (to a minimum of -1) when firing a non-Pistol weapon or when Brawling.It takes 3 Credits of medical treatment to remove this penalty. 1D3 51-60 Injured leg Reduce the character’s Speed by 1”. It costs 3 Credits of medical treatment to remove this penalty. 1D3 61-70 Injured torso The character is knocked out after two Stun markers,instead of the customary three.It costs 3 Credits of medical treatment to remove this penalty. 1D3 71-75 Serious injury No side effects 1D3+1 76-80 Minor injury No side effects 1 81-95 Knocked out No side effects 0 96-00 School of hard knocks +1 XP 0 GAME OPTions 102 Scenarios & settings 103 Introductory Campaign 104 Expanded Factions 110 Mission Selection 116 Stealth Missions 117 Street Fights 123 Salvage Jobs 137 Fringe World Strife 148 Loans: Who Do You Owe? 152 Name Generation Tables 157 Scenarios & Settings 104 If you or a friend are learning the core rules of the game before advancing to the optional rules in the rest of this expansion, this introductory campaign will guide you through each step of the core rules.This campaign will allow you to focus on learning a few new concepts at a time, integrating each aspect of the rules before moving on to the next one. Before starting, print out the reference and record sheets from the back of the core rulebook.The reference sheets will help you during games, while the record sheets are used to keep your adventures organized. Don’t worry if they look confusing at first, you’ll learn how to use each part in turn. Getting Started To start out, you need to create your crew. First, work through the Character Creation chapter of the core rulebook (p.12). If you have miniatures already picked out, go ahead and choose species for each character; otherwise you can use the First-timer, Standard, or Random methods, as you prefer. 1. Roll up your characters one at a time using whichever method you are happy with, and assign miniatures for each of them. Choose fitting names for everybody. 2. Remember to figure out how many story points you have and write down all of your details on the record sheets from the back of the book. 3. If you start out with Patrons, Rumors or Rivals, set them aside but keep track of them.These mechanics are not introduced until you have a bit more experience. Your First Fight As you return from shore leave, your crew is ready and raring to go.You’ve been grounded for a while now, waiting for the navigation computer to be reset, and there’s only so much gambling you can do before you end up bored, broke, or shot. When you start walking towards the shipyard, you realize that the workers are looking nervous and tense. Something is amiss.As you turn the corner, you see a gang of local scumbags hoping to make their name by taking you out.This will be a good opportunity to practice your skills, it seems. No campaign steps are done this turn. Before you proceed, read the core rulebook on how to move and shoot with your characters (pp.37-48; the Weapons Table, p.50; and any special gear you have, pp.53-58). Once you have created your crew, it is time to get them into a fight. Don’t worry – this is a training battle to help you learn the basics of how to fight in Five Parsecs From Home. Introductory Campaign We are not using any of the campaign rules at this point. Consult the “Set up the Battlefield” section of the core rulebook (p.108) to learn how to set up a table for play. Don’t worry about Deployment Conditions, Notable Sights, objectives or anything else. Just focus on creating a fun and pleasing- looking battlefield to fight over. This is a straight-up fight against an enemy gang.The enemy consists of Starport Scum and a Specialist. as shown in the stats block above. Once you have set everything up, review the Battle Round mechanics (core rulebook, p.112) to see how rolling your Reaction dice works. Don’t worry about Seizing the Initiative – we are not using that rule yet. The fight goes on until every opponent is removed from the table, you are completely defeated, or you manage to flee the table by moving across a battlefield edge. Any of your crew members that were knocked out during the fight are assumed to recover just fine. No experience points or other post- battle functions are carried out. Simply gather up your terrain, and prepare for your first real campaign turn! Campaign Turn 1 Jobs are a bit hard to come by, but your mechanic tells you they know a guy who needs some dirty work done.A squad of security robots have been hacked and are now firing on anyone that approaches, so he needs someone to go in and blow them to pieces. It’s a bad job, but it’s a paying job, and that’s what you need right now. Before the Battle No steps are done before the battle. The Battle • Set up the battlefield using the rules in the core rulebook (pp.108-110). • Do not roll for Deployment Conditions or Notable sights. • Do not roll for Unique Individuals. • You should roll to Seize the Initiative (core rulebook, p.112) and can add a +1 bonus to the roll. Your mission objective is the Fight Off mission (core rulebook, p.90). ENEMY NUMBER PANIC SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI WEAPON Starport Scum 4 1-3 4" +0 3 A Hand gun Specialist 1 1-3 4" +0 3 A Shotgun ENEMY NUMBER PANIC SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI WEAPON Security Bot 4 0 3" +0 5 D Hand laser Eager players If you are feeling confident, have a fifth bot show up at the center of the enemy battlefield edge at the start of Round 3. If you do this, give +1 XP to the crew member that destroys the fifth bot. Note: These enemies use a different AI type than the scum in the last battle (see the Defensive Enemy Movement AI type p.43). 105 Scenarios & Settings As enemies without a Panic range do not Bail (core rulebook, p.114), you will have to destroy all of them to win. After the Battle Consult the Post-battle Activities in the core rulebook (p.119).Take a moment to look over the whole section, then read and carry out only the steps listed below. 4. Get Paid (p.120) 5. Battlefield Finds (only if you Held the Field) (pp.120-121) 7. Gather the Loot (p.121) 8. Determine Injuries and Recovery (pp.121-122) 9. Experience and Character Upgrades (p.123) Campaign Turn 2 With a little coin in your pocket, it’s time to start making some preparations. Back when the ship crashed on Terseus-9, you lost a lot of your old gear, and if you are going to take on more challenging jobs, you’ll need to know the lie of the land.You found a small mercenary job to take on: some isolationist colonists have turned militant and are threatening to blow up a hyper-rail station. Before the Battle Take a look at the World steps in the core rulebook (p.76), paying particular attention to the steps below, then carry out only these listed steps in order: 1. Carry out the “Pay for Medical Care” step ONLY (p.76) 2. Assign and Resolve Crew Tasks (pp.76-82). Pick from the following options: Train, Trade, Recruit, Explore, Repair your kit. 4. Assign Equipment (p.85) The Battle • Set up the battlefield using the rules in the core rulebook (pp.108-110). • Roll on the Deployment Conditions Table (p.88). • Do not roll for Notable sights or Unique Individuals. • Roll normally to Seize the Initiative (p.112). • Your mission objective is the Patrol mission (p.90). After the Battle Complete the following campaign steps from the core rulebook: 4. Get Paid (p.120) 5. Battlefield Finds (only if you Held the Field) (pp.120-121) 7. Gather the Loot (p.121) 8. Determine Injuries and Recovery (pp.121-122) 9. Experience and Character Upgrades (p.123) 11. Purchase items (p.125) 12. Roll for a Campaign Event (p.125) 13. Roll for a Character Event (p.126) ENEMY NUMBER PANIC SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI WEAPON Isolationist 4 1-2 4" +0 3 C Colony rifle Specialist 1 1-2 4" +0 3 C Auto rifle Leader 1 1-2 4" +1 4 C Hand cannon 106 Scenarios & Settings Campaign Turn 3 It seems the jobs here are drying up, so it’s time to go.That’s the entire point of a starship, right? As you drift into the departure lane, you hear a few of the crew speculating about their paychecks once you make landfall.The news reports have declared that the world you are headed to is a battle zone. One of the mining guilds has offered you a decent paycheck to see off some corporate mercenaries, and it seems like as good a job as any. Before the Battle You will travel to a new world this campaign turn. Carry out the following Travel steps (see p.69 of the core rulebook): 2. Decide Whether to Travel (p.69) 3. Starship Travel Event (pp.70-72) 4. New World Arrival steps (pp.72-75) Note that you do NOT have to pay the normal travel costs this one time. Carry out the following steps of the World sequence (see p.76): 1. Upkeep and Ship Repairs (p.76) 2. Assign and Resolve Crew Tasks (pp.76-82). For this campaign turn, options are limited to Train, Trade, Recruit, Explore, Repair your kit. 4. Assign Equipment (p.85) The Battle Set up the next battle. • No Deployment Conditions apply, but roll to see if a Notable Sight is found (p.89). • Do not roll for Unique Individuals. Roll to Seize the Initiative at a –1 modifier (p.112). • Your mission objective is the Secure mission (p.91). • The enemy should all be set up in or behind terrain features providing them Cover (p.39; see also “Line of Sight”, p.38). After the Battle Complete the following campaign steps: 4. Get Paid (p.120) 5. Battlefield Finds (only if you Held the Field) (pp.120-121) 7. Gather the Loot (p.121) 8. Determine Injuries and Recovery (pp.121-122) 9. Experience and Character Upgrades (p.123) 11. Purchase items (p.125) 12. Roll for a Campaign Event (p.125) 13. Roll for a Character Event (p.126) ENEMY NUMBER PANIC SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI WEAPON Mercenary 3 1-2 5" +1 4 T Military rifle Specialist 1 1-2 5" +1 4 T Rattle gun Leader 1 1-2 6" +1 4 T Machine pistol, Blade 107 Scenarios & Settings Scenarios & Settings 108 Campaign Turn 4 Doing odd jobs for the locals isn’t really cutting it any longer. It’s time to start getting in with the power brokers of Fringe Space. Before the Battle You will remain on the world you are currently on. Complete the following campaign steps from the core rulebook: 1. Upkeep and Ship Repairs (p.76) 2. Assign and Resolve CrewTasks (pp.76-82). For this campaign turn, options are limited to Find a Patron, Train, Trade, Recruit, Explore, Repair your kit. 3. Determine Job Offers (pp.83-84) 4. Assign Equipment (p.85) 5. Resolve Any Rumors (p.85) The Battle This campaign turn, you will roll up a mission using the tables in the core rulebook from p.87 onwards. If you have obtained a Patron job or a Quest, you may pursue them now, otherwise you will fight an Opportunity mission. • Use the standard rules for determining the encounter and opposition, including checking for Unique Individuals. • Note that any opponent that would normally have a Combat Skill of +2 or higher is reduced to +1 during this mission. • Pay attention if the enemy you fight is noted to be an Invasion Threat. After the Battle Complete the following campaign steps from the core rulebook: 4. Get Paid (p.120) 5. Battlefield Finds (only if you Held the Field) (pp.120-121) 6. Check for Invasion! if you fought an Invasion Threat (p.121) 7. Gather the Loot (p.121) 8. Determine Injuries and Recovery (pp.121-122) 9. Experience and Character Upgrades (p.123) 11. Purchase items (p.125) 12. Roll for a Campaign Event (p.125) 13. Roll for a Character Event (p.126) I Already Have a Patron If you received Patrons during character creation,roll up a job for each of them now and pick the one you’d like to take this campaign turn.The other jobs do not generally remain available,but each Patron will add a +1 bonus when rolling to get a Patron job in future turns. Rumors You may have obtained Rumors either during character creation or from event tables.If so, pay attention to World Step 5 (p.85) where you will roll to see if they lead you to a Quest. Once they do,you can pursue the Quest at any time.Unlike a Patron job,it is not time- Scenarios & Settings Campaign Turn 5 It’s a big and dangerous universe out there, but you’ll be fine, kid. Unless you won’t. Either way… see you at the next starport. Before the Battle Go through the full sequence listed on p.68 of the core rulebook.You may travel if you like. The Battle You will use all the standard rules in the rulebook to generate your encounter this turn. No more training wheels, spacer! After the Battle Complete the full post-battle sequence listed on p.68 of the core rulebook. Onwards and Upwards Congratulations, you have completed the tutorial game, and are now ready to continue your campaign and explore the universe. If you would like to use the Story Track, read p.153 of the core rulebook and set the clock to 5Ticks. Collect 2 story points for making it this far. Heavily populated worlds often teem with interest groups vying for political,economic, and social dominance over the population. Any major starport,settlement,or city is likely to feature several such groups.Some operate covertly while others are aggressive and open about their intentions.Whether your crew encounters factions in a seedy downtown bar or through an anonymous message,they offer a way to get involved in the power struggles of the powerful and the desperate. A Faction is a group or organization that seeks to gain influence and control over the region in which it resides.This can range from corporate interests,merchant cartels,and social interest groups to criminal gangs and secret societies. For gameplay purposes,we are only concerned with planetary Factions.Each Faction exists primarily on a single world (though the reach and influence may extent throughout the system). Factions offer players new options to get involved in the world as well as having the world get involved with them. Generating Factions When creating a new world,generate 1D3+1 Factions as well.These represent the dominant power groups that are at odds with each other on the world.While numerous other groups will exist,they are assumed to be secondary to the Factions you create. For each Faction,go through the process below, beginning with a D100 roll for Faction type: D100 FACTION TYPE INFL. POWER 01-10 Charismatic leader +0 +0 11-30 Merchant cartel +1 +0 31-50 Criminal enterprise +0 +1 51-60 Advocacy group +0 +0 61-75 Political movement +0 +1 76-90 Religious movement +1 +0 91-00 Secretive organization +1 +1 Faction Type gives the broad narrative lean of the organization.The categories are quite wide and can encompass almost anything you can think of within each type.Bear in mind that Fringe society is quite alien to ours,and have issues and concerns that may appear quite abstract to us. Each Faction is rated for two qualities: Influence and Power.Roll 1D3+1 for each of these qualities,and note them down,applying any modifiers from the Faction type. EXPANDED FACTIONS 110 Scenarios & Settings • Influence can be seen as a measure of practical size.Factions with major Influence have a large membership (or a smaller number of more powerful members),assets, resources,and public recognition. • Power is the mailed fist of the Faction, indicating how well it can take action against other Factions,whether through political, economic,or clandestine means.Of course, in Fringe space,“clandestine” can often mean “open gun battle”. Faction Loyalty The relationship between a Faction and a crew is measured by a Loyalty score.As a crew accumulates Loyalty,they gain more trust with the Faction and are viewed as a reliable asset (or at least a useful one).Your crew has a separate Loyalty score for each Faction. If you began the campaign on this world, you may choose one Faction to start at Loyalty 1.The rest begin at Loyalty 0.If you are off-worlders,all Loyalties begin at 0. Faction Jobs Like Patrons,Factions often have a need for things to get done.and they would not hire a freelancer crew unless this required a certain degree of violence. Before taking your crew tasks,each turn your captain may check for a Faction job.This does not count as a crew task and can be done even if your captain is in Sick Bay,though not if they are currently absent from the crew for other reasons. Select a Faction you would like to work for and roll 1D6.If the roll is equal to or below the Influence score of the Faction,they have a job available.You can generate all details before deciding whether to take it or not. Faction jobs are treated as a Patron job, but do not roll for Danger Pay or Benefits. Factions only ask if there is a serious need: Add 1 additional standard opponent to the enemy force you will face. 111 Affiliated Patron jobs Many Patron jobs will be affiliated with a Faction either directly or indirectly.Whenever you receive a job from a new Patron,Roll a D6: 1-4: It is a normal job. 5-6:	 The patron is affiliated with a randomly selected Faction.They may be a subsidiary,a friendly organization, or acting under influence. Affiliated Patron jobs are still Patron jobs and are less likely to increase your Loyalty rating with the Faction in question,but they do count as being a successful Faction job for the purpose of any post-game resolution mechanics. Gaining Loyalty Factions recognize the value of competent agents.If you Win a Faction Job mission,roll 1D6 when resolving Patron and Rival details after the mission: • If the roll is below your current Loyalty score,it remains the same. • If the roll is equal to or higher than your current Loyalty score,it is raised by +1 point. If this was an Affiliated Patron job,a roll of a 6 earns +1 Loyalty. Unlike Patrons,Factions are generally in it for the long haul,and as such Loyalty does not decrease from a failed Job. The Benefits of Loyalty Having friends is important.Your captain may try to call in a favor once per campaign turn. This requires a crew task,and can only be done by your captain. Roll a D6: • If the roll is equal to or below the current Loyalty score,reduce the Loyalty by the die roll,and select one of the favors listed below.You can choose the favor after rolling. • If the roll is higher than the Loyalty score, nobody has time for you (“…but we do appreciate your business!” Your Loyalty score remains unchanged. FACTION FAVOR NOTES Pulling strings Can be used to cancel a Loan enforcement roll (see p.154) or remove an Enforcer,Vigilante,or Bounty Hunter Rival. Monetary help Gain Credits equal to the die roll.Add +1 to the score if the sum is used directly to pay off debts or medical expenses. Contact network You may either roll up a Patron that offers a job or opt to take a Salvage job (see p.137) . Arrange a meeting Roll up a new crew member using the start-of-campaign process.They will assist you for one mission.If you win,they will offer to join you permanently for a one-time payment of 1D6 Credits. Provide cover You cannot be attacked by any Rivals this turn. Access to information Gain Quest Clues equal to Influence this turn. Playing All Sides Freelancers tend to work on the periphery of Faction power structures and tend to do a good job at keeping their cards close to their chest.For this reason,your crew can attain Loyalty in multiple Factions. 112 Scenarios & Settings Faction Activities During the Check for Invasion step of each campaign turn, the Factions will perform activities if the world is not currently being invaded. If you did a job directly for a Faction,always perform the Faction Struggle event. This does not occur for affiliated jobs.Once this is resolved,one randomly selected Faction performs an activity.This can be the same Faction again and could even be another Faction Struggle. To determine the activity,roll D100 and consult the Faction Activity table one the following page. Note: Some activities have requirements.If the Faction does not meet these,the action does not take place,and nothing happens. Some activities target another Faction.This is selected randomly. D100 FACTION ACTIVITY REQUIREMENTS NOTES 01-10 Consolidate power base – Roll 1D6.If it is higher than Power,the faction gains +1 power.The Faction gains +1 Power. 11-15 Undermine Faction – Target a Faction.Roll 1D6.If the roll is a 5-6, decrease their highest score by -1 (deciding randomly,if equal). 16-20 Hostile take-over Influence 3+ Target a Faction.Roll 1D6.If the roll is higher than their Influence,adjust target Influence by -1 and initiator Influence by +1. 21-30 Public relations campaign – Roll 1D6.If higher than Influence, it increases by +1. 31-45 Capitalize on events Successful job this turn Add +1 to lowest of Influence and Power (deciding randomly,if equal) 46-55 Lay low – No actions are taken 56-60 Defensive posture Power 3+ No actions are taken. The Faction negates any hostile action taken against it this campaign turn. 61-75 Faction struggle Power 3+ The faction initiates a struggle with another random faction.Roll 1D6+Power for each, adding +1 for a successful job this turn.The defeated Faction suffers -1 from the highest of Power or Influence (deciding randomly if equal). 76-80 Office party – Crew gain Credits equal to their Loyalty rating 81-90 Plans within plans Influence 3+ Crew offered a Quest. 91-00 Day to day operations Crew offered a job next turn. Off-World Factions If you are running a particularly ambitious campaign and keeping track of multiple worlds,a Faction activity occurs on each game world you are following in your campaign.However,you can choose to let a former world “sleep” if you would rather not be overwhelmed. 113 Scenarios & Settings Invasion!? If the world is invaded,Factions typically flee off-world or dissolve.Once you know where you are ending up,roll 1D6 for each Faction with a Power of 4 or less: • If the roll is below their Power,they flee to the same world but suffer -1 Power and -1 Influence (to a minimum of 1 each) • If the roll is equal to or higher than their Power,the Faction is destroyed in the invasion or scatters to the winds.Either way, they are not a factor any longer. If any Faction has a Power of 5+,they will instead help fight it out.Each such Faction adds +1 to the Galactic War Progress table. If the world is reclaimed,such Factions suffer -2 Power but gain +1 Influence.Generate two new Factions when the war ends. Faction Events After rolling for crew and campaign events, roll D100 on the following table for a Faction event. If a specific Faction needs to be determined, pick one at random from the Factions on the current world. Fringe World Strife (See page 148) A Crackdown prevents all Faction activities this turn. If an Economic Collapse takes place, all Factions suffer -1 Influence. If a Civil War breaks out,Factions will go to ground until the war is over. 114 Scenarios & Settings D100 FACTION EVENT NOTES 01-07 New Faction A new Faction emerges.Generate it from scratch but roll only 1D3 for Power and Influence.It automatically offers you a job next turn. 08-14 Shoot out Two Factions are having it out in the streets.Randomly select both and roll 1D6+Power.The loser cannot offer a job next turn and cannot attempt any activity.They suffer -1 from their highest value of Power or Influence (Power,if equal). 15-19 Tensions rising Faction jobs next turn increase Danger Pay by +1 Credit. 20-27 Truce Calm reigns.Next turn,no Faction activities occur. 28-34 Power base A random Faction increases the lowest of its scores by +1.Select randomly,if equal. 35-42 Tip off A random Faction grants you a Quest Clue in the hope of future favors. 43-49 Befriending the leadership The Faction you have the highest loyalty towards is getting chummy. Add +1 Story Point. 50-55 New Leadership A random Faction has a new person in charge.You can use the character creation tables to determine who they are if you like.Roll 1D6 for each of Influence and Power: A 1 indicates the score suffers a -1 drop,while a 6 indicates it increases by +1. 56-60 Outside interference A random Faction must roll 1D6.If the roll exceeds Power,it suffers -1 Influence. 61-65 Internal struggle A random Faction must roll 1D6.On a 1,it suffers -1 Influence.On a 6, it suffers -1 Power. 66-72 Public display of support A random Faction gains +1 Influence. 73-79 Armed to the teeth A random Faction gains +1 Power. 80-87 A little visit If you participated in an attack on a Faction this or last turn,they send an Enforcer Rival after you. 88-93 We thought we would do you a favor Do you have 3+ Loyalty? If so,a random Faction you are loyal to eliminates one of your Rivals. 94-00 Dark secrets A random Faction sends you on a Quest targeting one of their enemies. If you complete it successfully,the target Faction suffers -1 Influence and -1 Power.You receive +2 Loyalty for completing the Quest. Faction Destruction If either Power or Influence is reduced to 0, the Faction ceases to exist.All Loyalty is removed. If a Faction was destroyed by a Faction Struggle and you had Loyalty of 4+ to the winner,you receive a Rival (from the Hired Muscle table) as vengeful elements of the defeated Faction go after you to settle some scores.If you took a Faction job for the winner in the same battle round,add +2 Loyalty. Every time a Faction is destroyed,every remaining Faction rolls 1D6+Power.The highest score gains +1 Influence (on a draw, both receive +1 Influence). 115 Scenarios & Settings Using this compendium and the core rules, there are a total of four possible battle types: • Conventional battle (core rulebook,p.87) • Stealth missions (p.117 of this book) • Street fights (p.123 of this book) • Salvage missions (p.137 of this book) While you can of course play whatever type of battle you like,you can also use the system below to randomly determine what battle type you will engage in during each campaign turn. When playing one of the standard battle types,use the notes below to determine the scenario type. Rival mission This is always a Conventional battle. Invasion battle This is always a Conventional battle. Opportunity mission Roll D6: 1-4 Conventional battle 5 Stealth 6 Street fight Patron mission Roll D6: 1-2 Conventional battle 3-4 Stealth 5-6 Street fight Faction mission Roll D6: 1 Conventional battle (as Patron mission) 2-4 Stealth 5-6 Street fight Quest mission Roll D6: 1-3 Conventional battle 4 Stealth 5 Street fight 6 Salvage mission (treat as a Stealth mission if you don’t have the Freelancer’s Handbook) Salvage Missions Salvage jobs are undertaken when made available by the rules on p.137 (they are also integrated here as an option in Quest missions). Mission Selection 116 Scenarios & Settings STEALTH MISSIONS While stealth is applicable to a range of situations such as a military outpost or a well-guarded research lab,it comes into its own in the concrete and chrome hell of a major urban center,where corporate facilities and gang hideouts are frequent targets for hostile intent. Sometimes you need to go in commando-style without getting detected,whether it is due to the risk of overwhelming enemy forces,or an employer who would prefer to not cause a scene.Whether scouting some dark corner of a planetary metropolis,or striking a key level of a space hulk in high orbit,Stealth missions are well suited to a more patient freelancer who isn’t afraid of crawling around in the dark. Integration • Enemy Deployment Variables (p.44) are not used in Stealth missions. • Escalating Battles (p.46) do not apply during Stealth rounds or in the first battle round. • Stealth missions require the conventional miniatures rules,and are not compatible with Grid-based Movement (p.90) or No-minis Combat Resolution (p.66). Stealth Basics In a Stealth mission,you will be trying to achieve a special objective from the Stealth Mission Objectives table below.During the mission you will try to infiltrate the target location without being detected,while contending with various security measures. If you are detected,the mission turns into a conventional battle as you must try to complete the objective while dealing with arriving enemy forces. Table Setup Stealth missions require a fairly dense table with lots of terrain.Try to avoid any large open spaces as stealth is more exciting when there are lots of things to hide behind. Stealth missions assume a 3 x 3-foot play area (36 x 36”).For 2 x 2-foot tables,consider halving all distances and ranges. Any terrain feature placed in the center of the table must be something that can be climbed or entered such as a building,forest,or ruin. You may leave the center empty if you prefer. Objectives The normal process for determining objectives and other scenario features is not used. Instead,roll D100 on the table below to determine what your objective will be. Unless it must be located first,the objective is placed in the exact center of the table. Exfiltration Once the objective has been achieved,the crew must leave the battlefield.This can be done by moving across any table edge. Stealth missions are often fought in conditions of poor visibility and so it is easier to slip away in the confusion.When rolling for initiative each turn,you may select a single crew member assigned a 6 and remove them from play.They have exfiltrated successfully and cannot return to the battlefield.You may use this option before the objective has been completed. 117 Scenarios & Settings D100 OBJECTIVE NOTES 01-20 Locate and retrieve An item must be located using the “Finding the target” rules below.Once located,it must be picked up and then exfiltrated. 21-35 Deliver item An item must be delivered to the objective.Select which crew member carries it.Once it is delivered,the crew can exfiltrate. 36-50 Locate and contact An individual must be located using the “Finding the target” rules below.Once located,you must move within 3” and Line of Sight, and then exfiltrate. 51-70 Rescue individual An individual is placed at the objective.You must reach within 3” and Line of Sight of them,at which point they join your crew for the rest of the mission.You must exfiltrate them. 71-85 Transmit message An individual is placed at the objective.You must reach within 3” and Line of Sight to deliver the message and get a reply,then exfiltrate. 86-00 Retrieve package An item is placed at the objective.It must be picked up and then exfiltrated. Finding the target If the target must be located,mark or take a note of any terrain features within 6” of the table center.Any of them could contain the target.You may have to relocate some features to ensure you have at least three candidates,or you can place markers in an open area. When a crew member moves within 6” and Line of Sight of a terrain feature or marker that is a candidate,roll 1D6+Savvy. • A 6+ indicates they have located the target: Place it within or on the feature (if possible),or adjacent otherwise.It should be at the most distant point from the figure discovering it. • A result of 5 or less means the feature does not contain the target. Once you are down to the last possible feature,it will of course contain the target automatically. Items Carrying a mission item does not hinder the character’s ability to move and fight.An item can be handed off during movement as a free action simply by moving within 1” of the recipient,but can only be handed off once per battle round (you cannot “fire brigade” the item off the table in a chain). If a character carrying an item becomes a casualty,it is dropped where they fell and may be picked up by moving into contact. Enemies will ignore items on the ground,and they are unaffected by other factors such as Area weapons.However,an item dropped in dangerous or hazardous terrain (such as a pool of acid) is destroyed. Why a Savvy Test? A high-Savvy character is more likely to have correctly guessed where the target is located. 118 Scenarios & Settings Individuals Generate the type of Individual using the table below.Regardless of title,the profile is: REACTIONS 1 SPEED 4” COMBAT SKILL +0 TOUGHNESS 4 SAVVY +1 Any Individual from this table moves their base Speed in a random direction at the end of each Enemy Phase.The enemy will ignore Individuals normally – they are under strict orders not to harm them,or the Individual is fitted with stealth equipment or has psionic shielding).However,if third party creatures such as vent crawlers are spawned during the mission,they WILL attack Individuals. Special notes: • Individuals are unaware of any dangers they could stumble into,though they will halt at dangerous terrain features or environmental hazards. • Individuals are not armed.You can give them a weapon you are carrying,but once armed,they will be treated as a normal target by the enemy. • If Individuals are caught by an Area weapon, they are struck normally and,if surviving this or any other type of attack,they will Dash to the nearest terrain feature and hide there for the rest of the game. D100 INDIVIDUAL 01-15 Criminal kingpin 16-30 Corporate agent 31-45 Notable citizen 46-55 Off-world diplomat 56-70 Leader of organization 71-80 Local government employee 81-90 Wealthy local 91-00 Law enforcement They Did What? During a Rescue mission it is possible for the random movement of the Individual to wander off the table edge.In this case,they count as having been Rescued,even though they evidently had to rescue themselves! Other mission types are failed if the Individual wanders off the table – they make their escape,enemy agents pick them up,they are eaten by vent crawlers,etc. Scenarios & Settings 119 Deployment Enemy deployment Enemy forces are deployed evenly throughout the table.If possible,for every four enemies, one should be placed on a raised terrain feature such as a roof-top,walkway,or tower. Player arrival The crew arrives from a single randomly selected table edge,moving onto the table in the first battle round.Crew members must all arrive from the same edge but do not have to arrive from the same point.Pick each point of arrival as you move the figures on. The Stealth Round Until the alarm has been set off,each battle round is played as a Stealth round.Initiative dice are rolled and assigned as normal. During Stealth rounds,movement takes place at the following rates (Dashing is unavailable): • Quick Actions Phase: Base move +1” • Slow Actions Phase: Base move -1” During Stealth rounds,Enemies do not use their AI.Instead: 1. Randomly select one enemy figure that will remain in place,scan in every direction (see Field of Vision diagrams 1a,below),and then face in a random direction (1b,2). 2. Each remaining enemy figure moves in a random direction at their base move -1”, facing in the direction they move each turn (2,below).Note: These enemies do not “pan” their viewpoint when they turn to move in a new direction.They are assumed to only look in the direction they are moving,regardless of their original position. 3. An enemy that would move into a wall, terrain feature,or the table edge will remain in place instead of moving (3,below),scan in every direction and then turn to face directly away from the obstacle in question. 1a 2 1b One designated enemy figure Designated figure makes a 360-degree Field of Vision scan All except designated figure make base move+1 in a random direction During a Stealth round,enemy figures have no active Field of Vision while turning The figure in red could not complete its move (it would have crossed the table edge), so remains in place,faces away,and makes a 360-degree Field of Vision scan 3 The rest have 90-degree Field of Vision in their facing direction. 120 Scenarios & Settings Detection The crew risks detection in the following circumstances: • While a crew member moves,if any part of the move lies within Line of Sight and the Field of Vision of an enemy. • If a crew member is within Line of Sight and Field of Vision at the end of an enemy move. • If a crew member is within Line of Sight when an enemy scans (remember,scanning is in every direction). To determine if the crew figure is detected, roll 2D6 for the enemy in question. Subtract 1 if the enemy is scanning. An enemy can potentially spot multiple crew members at risk of detection.A single roll is made with the score being compared individually to each exposed crew member. The modified roll is the spotting value of that enemy this round.The spotting value is reduced by 2 if the figure is partially obscured by a terrain feature that they are within or in contact with,and reduced by 1 for each intervening feature that would obscure visibility. For each crew figure at risk,measure the range from the enemy.Round any fractions down to a whole inch (so 6.3" is 6"). • If the spotting value exceeds the distance to any visible crew figure,they are spotted, and the alarm is raised immediately. See “Alarm!”,below. • If the spotting value equals the distance to any crew figure,but none are spotted, the enemy is suspicious.They immediately move 1” towards the crew figure in question,facing towards them,and roll again.They are not considered to be scanning when this occurs.If two crew figures are at the same distance,move towards one of them,picked at random. This can occur multiple times in a row. • If the spotting value is below the distance to every crew figure at risk,none are spotted. Tools and tricks During Stealth rounds, you can take advantage of any of three options: Stay Down, Distraction, and Lure. Each requires a crew member to remain stationary to perform them. OPTION DESCRIPTION Stay Down The character tries to be as discreet as possible.Until the character activates again,all spotting rolls against them are reduced by the character’s Savvy bonus,provided they are at least partially obscured by terrain. Distraction Select an enemy within 6” and roll 1D6+Savvy.On a 6+,they turn immediately in the chosen direction.When next activated,they remain in place,looking in that direction,and take no other actions.If the roll is a natural 1,the enemy immediately turns to face the distracting crew member and makes a spotting roll. Lure The crew member tries to draw enemies towards their position.Every enemy within 8” immediately moves 1D6” towards the location of the crew member and then makes a spotting check.Each enemy moves individually,but a single spotting roll is made and applied to every enemy. 121 Scenarios & Settings Attacking while in Stealth A crew member may opt to attack either by moving into Brawling combat or by firing a weapon. A crew member that attacks from outside the field of vision of an enemy receives a +2 bonus to their shooting or Brawling combat roll. Attacks will set off the alarm if: • A weapon other than a handgun or needle rifle is fired. • A target of a shot or Brawling attack is not knocked out by the attack. • A Ripper sword is used in Brawling combat. Alarm! When the alarm goes off,the current Stealth round ends immediately,and the game transitions to normal combat.Begin a new battle round normally.In some cases,the alarm may be raised before a Stealth round is completed.When this happens,end the Stealth round without completing any missing actions. Randomly select a table edge which the enemy reinforcements will be arriving from. Reinforcements At the beginning of each battle round,roll 2D6.For each die showing a 6,a basic enemy arrives as reinforcements at the center of the enemy table edge (selected above).Arriving enemies are placed immediately,but cannot take any actions in the battle round in which they arrive. Stealth Mission Enemies Enemy types are determined normally,with Roving Threats being treated as Hired Muscle instead.Enemies with Rampage AI should be rerolled (they’re a little too energetic to make viable guards). The initial number of enemies is not rolled for. Instead,the enemy will automatically have a total number of figures equal to your campaign crew size +1 (so 7 in a normal game).These will include 1 Specialist and 1 Lieutenant. The rest (as well as any reinforcements) will be basic troops. Psionics and Stealth (See Psionics Powers,pp.18-19) • Any Psionic use targeting an enemy (Grab,Shock,Psionic Scare) will set off the alarm unless they are removed from play as a result. • Predict can be used to roll twice for an enemy spotting roll. • Shroud counts as a terrain feature (-2 to spotting values),but does not block Line of Sight. 122 Scenarios & Settings STREET FIGHTS Sooner or later,your freelancers will find themselves in some back-alley shootout. While most combat takes place in a relatively known area where the only people present are you and the enemy force,street fighting is confused and muddled.Characters slip into and out of sight,it is difficult to confirm whether you hit your mark,and something unexpected lies around every corner. Integration Notable Sights and Deployment Conditions are not used in Street Fighting scenarios,and they use their own Objectives listed below. Enemy Deployment Variables (p.44) are not used in Street Fights. Escalating Battles (p.46) are not used in Street Fights. Fire in the Streets It is easy to underestimate how much “stuff” is in a city back alley,from dumpsters to a motorcycle to some random trash to a newspaper stand.The future may be different (a robo-cycle leaning against a robo-dumpster behind some robo-trash, no doubt),but the sort of colony towns that have frequent jobs for freelancers are probably similarly cluttered.This kind of detail makes it difficult to depict the table accurately since the demands on your terrain collection would be enormous.The rules in this chapter help provide some abstractions to how the entire thing works,so you don’t have to build an entire city block in intricate detail (unless you want to,of course!) Combat in a street setting is a series of high activity bursts followed by periods of ducking behind something and trying to see what is going on.A laser beam can come from any corner,and movement is often methodical and cautious to avoid stepping into an ambush. When playing a Street Fight scenario on the gaming table,we use an abstracted approach to time and space.Two figures in one location may trade shots representing only a few seconds of time,while another figure goes to investigate something and has a conversation with an informant.When they meet up,their time “catches up” and they are now acting together.Don’t over-analyze it too much,just think of it in film terms. Building a Table You will need to mark off streets and alleys, though nothing stops you from having a shootout in a construction site or across a town plaza.Since filling a table with buildings is expensive (not to mention a bit difficult to game on),paper or card can be cut out to form building blocks and placed to form your streets and alleys. You can make some buildings accessible by marking entrance points and then drawing in a few rooms.Don’t worry about making an entire city block detailed with all the apartments and shops.Just outline a room or two that characters can gain access to. It is fine to leave some or all of the city blocks inaccessible as citizens would lock the doors when they hear trouble,but make sure there is plenty of ways in and out of locations. You will also need lots of incidental terrain to clutter up the streets and side alleys.Again, if you are on a budget,you can cut out paper squares and mark them as “tall” (blocks sight) or “short” (blocks movement but allows sight), and scatter them everywhere. Take a moment to determine what the buildings are: It can make all the difference to the narrative feel of the mission.If in doubt, roll D6 on the table below and apply the result to a block. 123 Scenarios & Settings D6 BUILDING EFFECT 1-2 Commercial (shops,offices) +1 City marker 3-4 Residential (apartments,houses) No special effects 5 Warehouse +1 Suspect marker 6 Abandoned or empty No special effects,but place plenty of difficult terrain and additional cover nearby. Visibility Street scenes are chaotic and confusing as street clutter,passing crowds,and hover cars obscure vision.Of course,it is probably also raining dramatically in the neon-lit night scene.All visibility is limited to 9” in a street fight scenario,and cannot be increased by any abilities or equipment. Placing Suspect Markers In a Street Fight,you must identify where the enemy is.All enemies begin the game as Suspect markers which may turn out to be opposition as you play.The mission begins with Suspect markers equal to the number of characters the player deploys. The markers are placed around the table, spaced out fairly evenly.Suspects should be along the side of the street,near shops or any other interesting features you may have noted. Place an additional Suspect marker by the entrance to any Warehouses on the map. Placing City Markers City markers represent city life in general,and are detailed fully on p.133.If this is your first time playing a Street Fight scenario,you may prefer to omit their use.Otherwise,place 6 City markers around the table in or by any suitable terrain feature or building block.Place an additional marker by any Commercial area. Determine Player Entry In street fights,your crew is likely to have been undertaking various tasks and minor jobs and are now converging on their objective.Some may have followed leads or done research, while another may have stopped to get a neo- dog from a street vendor. Each crew figure enters from a random point on the edge of the table.A direction die can be rolled in the center of the table to determine each arrival.Place each figure at the edge of the table where the direction die points. Your crew captain arrives last,and may choose to arrive randomly or alongside any crew member already placed on the table. Encountering Suspects Suspect markers behave randomly as their nature is not certain yet.It may be one of your opponents out to pick a fight,it may be a random bystander that was just moving suspiciously,or even a particularly noisy service bot. Suspect markers act in the Enemy Phase, after all active enemy figures have acted.They are moved in order from left to right on the gaming table.One at a time,roll a D6 and carry out the action shown on the table below: Difficulty If you prefer a more challenging game, add 1 or 2 additional Suspect markers. 124 Scenarios & Settings D6 ACTION RESULT 1 Stay Remain in place. 2-4 Move Move 4” in a random direction,halting if unable to make the full move. 5 Pursue Move 4” towards the nearest crew member by the shortest route possible. The Suspect marker continues to be in pursuit in future rounds and does not roll on this table any longer. 6 Something interesting? The marker remains where it is.Place a City marker underneath it.This can only occur once per round.If multiple Suspect markers all roll a 6,the City marker is only placed the first time.Treat the rest as entry 1: Stay. If a crew member ever finds themself within Line of Sight and within a distance of 4+Savvy inches of a Suspect marker,the Suspect is identified; for example,a character Savvy +1 spots at 5” range.Roll D6 immediately,and consult the table below. Note that this can happen both when a Suspect marker moves and when a crew figure moves. Halt the move at the earliest possible point it would meet the criteria,and resolve it immediately before completing the action of the crew figure if it was interrupted. D6 SUSPECT RESULT 1 Nothing interesting Remove the marker. 2 Possible enemy If the marker is in pursuit (see ‘Pursue’,above table),it is an enemy. Otherwise,it is nothing of interest.In either case,remove the marker. 3-5 Enemy Remove the marker and replace it with an enemy figure. 6 Ambush Remove the marker and replace it with an enemy figure, then place a second enemy 6” away from the spotting crew member in a random direction. 125 Scenarios & Settings Evasion The city is full of places to hide or make an escape,if you know what you are doing. A crew member is eligible to Evade if they had no enemies visible at the start of the Enemy Actions phase.If a moving enemy comes into sight,they may attempt to Evade immediately upon the enemy figure moving into sight and visual range: Roll 1D6+Savvy.For every point above 4, the crew member may immediately move 1” in any direction.For example,on a modified result of 6,the crew member could move 2”.A modified result of 4 or less means the attempt failed and no Evasion movement is done. Evasion moves can cross any terrain features that could normally be traversed, without penalty.You cannot Evade into Brawling combat. A figure can only attempt to Evade once per battle round. Objectives Roll D100 on the table below to determine what you are getting paid to do. Individuals Several missions involve an Individual.This character always uses the base character profile (Speed 4”,Toughness 3),and will not fight. They move at the end of the Enemy Actions phase and will wander in a random direction. If a figure within 6” and Line of Sight fires or is fired upon,they panic and immediately run a full move away from the incident and towards some sort of cover.They will then resume wandering at the end of each Enemy Action phase as normal. A character within 3” and Line of Sight of an individual can corral them to move in a particular direction.This requires a roll of 1D6+Savvy,scoring a 5+.They will then move to a designated location within Line of Sight before resuming their wandering. If used,Individuals begin the scenario in the center of the table. Packages If a mission involves a Package,it costs 1” of movement to pick it up off the ground,place it in a location or hand it off. If a character becomes Down while carrying a Package,it drops at their feet.Roll D6; a roll of 1 indicates it is destroyed,making the mission a failure. Starting Trouble Any revealed enemies that are unable to spot any crew members after moving will try to start trouble.Roll 1D6: On a 1,a Suspect marker is placed randomly 6” from their position.Only one new marker can be placed each battle round regardless of how many 1s are rolled. 126 Scenarios & Settings D100 OBJECTIVE DESCRIPTION 01-10 Contact individual You must reach the individual and move within 1” to deliver the message. Once it is delivered,the individual is removed from the table,and the figure that delivered the message must survive the mission (meaning not permanently dead). 11-20 Locate individual The individual does not begin on the table.Place 6 markers around the table in buildings or interesting locations,spread roughly evenly (use markers,dice, or other tokens that you can identify as ‘Individual markers’). Each time you move within 4” and Line of Sight of a marker,remove it and roll a D6.If the roll is equal to or below the number of markers removed so far (including the present one) you have located the individual. Finally,You must get the individual off a table edge without them becoming a casualty to save them. 21-40 Surveil individual You must end a total of 3 battle rounds with a figure within Line of Sight and 4-9” from the individual,then make your escape. If the individual ever comes within 3” and Line of Sight,they panic and will flee towards the nearest table edge until they no longer have Line of Sight,at which point they resume wandering.You can resume surveillance after they resume wandering,but cannot do so while they are Panicked. 41-60 Confront individual You must reach the individual and move within 2”.Once you do,roll 1D6: 1-2:	 They are terrified and will attempt to flee,running towards the nearest table edge on each activation.You must defeat them in a Brawl (without claiming any weapon bonuses),at which point they surrender and are removed from play.The mission is completed. 3-4:	 They want to make a fight of it.Roll on the Street Combatants Table (p.132) to see what they turn out to have been (they were obviously in disguise).You must turn them into a casualty to complete the mission. 5-6:	 They must be threatened.Roll 1D6+Savvy,with a 6+ succeeding. You can try any time you have a character within 2”; the individual will continue to wander until you succeed,at which point they are removed from play and the mission is completed. 61-75 Rescue individual You must reach the individual and corral them.Once you have,once per battle round a crew member that is within 1” of the individual can move them in any direction desired. They do not move individually.If they spend an entire battle round with no crew figures within 6” at any point,they panic and will move to the nearest cover to sit tight. Once you have contacted the individual,the nearest Suspect marker will Pursue (see table,p.125) and enemies may attack the individual in Brawling combat (but not by firing). You must get the individual off a table edge to save them. 127 Scenarios & Settings D100 OBJECTIVE DESCRIPTION 76-90 Deliver package Select a crew member to carry the package.It must be delivered to the center of the table.No enemy or Suspect marker may be within 5” when the package is placed.You must then make your escape. Place an additional Suspect marker on the center of the table. 91-00 Retrieve package A package is placed in the center of the table.Place a Suspect marker on top of the initial location.If the distance from the table edge to the center is less than 15”,place a second Suspect marker 6” from the center in a random direction. A character must move into contact with the package,and it must then be moved off any table edge. The Shootout A Street Fight is a busy and often claustrophobic environment and characters fighting with large,cumbersome weapons are often at a distinct disadvantage compared to a pistol that can be whipped from a jacket and fired single-handed.Special advantages apply to figures using Pistols as explained below. When an attacker fires a weapon with the Pistol trait,a Shootout is initiated: 1. The attacker fires normally. 2. If the target is not Stunned or eliminated, they may return fire IF they are armed with a Pistol. 3. If the attacker is not Stunned or eliminated or the target does not have a Pistol (or is otherwise unable to fire),the attacker fires a second time. No additional shots are taken after carrying out these three steps.The encounter then switches to the usual combat rules. Figures with non-Pistol weapons can use them normally in a street fight scenario but cannot initiate a Shootout and cannot return fire as part of a Shootout against them. Casualties Street fighting is confusing,and exchanges of fire are often brief.It is recommended to use the new Casualty tables on page 100. Morale Morale is not checked during Street Fights as the situation is too confusing and enemies may well be unaware of what is happening elsewhere on the table. Street Fight Enemies The streets have their own ecosystem of gangs and bullies,only too ready to go toe-to-toe with strangers muscling in on their turf. Perhaps they’ve been paid to deal with you, perhaps they just want to establish who’s boss. For regular street foes,use the Street Fight Enemies table below.However,there may be tougher customers around: If a City Marker reveal indicates that a combatant is present, roll on the Street Combatant table instead (see p.132). 128 Scenarios & Settings Street Fight Enemies table Use this enemy table when selecting opponents for a Street Fight scenario. Street fight opposition does not generally have leadership as it doesn’t operating as a cohesive unit.The same profile and armaments are used throughout the mission. The opposition is not determined until the first time you reveal an Enemy during the scenario. Note that some entries are similar to entries on the main encounter tables,but profiles may be different here.Use the profiles below for Street Fight scenarios only. D100 ENEMY SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI WEAPONS 01-07 Hit Squad 5” +1 4 A Hand laser Someone wants you dead and was willing to pay trained professionals to facilitate the process. • A natural 6 to Hit ignores any Armor the target is wearing. 08-12 Spooks 5” +1 4 A Machine pistol; Blade Well-armed people with generic outfits,clearly up to something suspicious. • Once the enemy has been revealed as Spooks,all current and future Suspect markers automatically Pursue (see table,p.125). 13-22 Gutter Gang 4” +0 4 A Hand gun The urban counterpart to Starport Scum,Gutter Gangers tend to inhabit the worst territory.They are often desperate to establish a reputation. • No special rules apply. • If another gang shows up,they are automatically Gutter Gangers as well,but will be a rival gang,and may fight each other as well as your crew. 23-32 Main Gang 4” +1 4 A Handgun Unity Enforcer slang classifies a Main Gang as one that has steady control over at least two full city blocks. • No special rules apply. • If another gang shows up,they are automatically Main Gangers as well,but will be a rival gang,and may fight each other as well as your crew. 33-40 Urban Separatists 4” +1 4 T Colony rifle Militant groups often decide that their particular neighborhood should secede from the colony or even from Unity as a whole. • If gangers or enforcers show up during the mission,three additional separatists are placed in the center of the battlefield.One will carry a rattle gun,while the other two carry colony rifles. It’s a Weird Place Desperate times makes for unlikely allies. If you prefer some variety,you can roll up a new type the second time you reveal an Enemy.Each enemy reveal going forward has an even chance of being of either type. 129 Scenarios & Settings D100 ENEMY SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI WEAPONS 41-48 Fanatics 4” +0 4 A Handgun; Blade The unstable environment of a Fringe colony produces all manner of complicated belief systems, many of which end up producing militant squads roaming the streets. • At the end of each battle round roll a D6 for each Fanatic currently on the table.If one or more of the dice roll a 6,a single additional Fanatic shows up.Place the figure adjacent to the Fanatic currently closest to any of your crew. 49-54 Tech Cultists 4” +1 5 T Beam pistol Human tech worship goes back to pre-Unity days.The cultists often seek some sort of transcendental state of organic and synthetic merge. • Armor save 6+. 55-60 Roid Gangers 4” +0 / +2 5 A Hand cannon; Brutal melee Hopped up on power-drugs,Roid Gangers view everything from weight lifting to shopping trips as an opportunity for hand-to-hand combat. • A Roid Ganger that has Line of Sight to a crew member at the start of their activation will shout,if they do not currently have a Shout marker.Place a Shout marker next to them.At the start of their next activation,remove the marker,then remove all Stun markers. • Roid gangers count as +2 Combat Skill when Brawling and +0 when shooting. 61-65 Bot Gang 4” +0 5 T Blast pistol Occasionally,a group of security bots glitch out and become a problem,whether through software errors or intentional sabotage.This particular squad has decided to copy the street gangs and carve out their own piece of turf. • Armor save 5+. • They will not attack Bots or Soulless unless the figure has attacked a bot previously during the mission. 66-74 Vigilantes 4” +0 4 T Colony rifle Whether the issue is littering,terrorists,or someone threatening to build a gas station,angry citizens often take matters into their own hands. No special rules. 75-84 Crime Syndicate 4” +1 4 T Blast pistol The wealthiest gangs can have networks that stretch across the planet and beyond.They make it a point of sporting expensive and fancy-looking weapons. No special rules. 130 Scenarios & Settings D100 ENEMY SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI WEAPONS 85-94 Terror Faction 4” +1 4 A Handgun; Blade The distinction between Terror Factions and fanatics or separatists is that for the “Terrors” blowing things up tends to be the primary goal. • If a Terror member activates without a figure in sight,roll a D6.On a 1,they decide to blow up the nearest terrain feature or building.They move towards it each activation and try to enter (even if being fired upon,though they will shoot normally).If they activate within the terrain feature,a Bomb marker is placed,and a D6 roll is made each activation (including the present).On a 1-2,the bomb goes off.All figures in,on,or adjacent to the feature become casualties with no saving throw. • Once a bomb goes off,the Sirens! event triggers automatically (see p.135). • The bomb can be disarmed by moving into contact and rolling 6+ on a Savvy test. 95-100 Neon Barbarians 5” +1 5 A Boarding saber While some worlds regress to a low tech environment,you occasionally get groups of city- dwellers who decide to intentionally emulate such a lifestyle.This can lead to them roaming the city streets,shouting at street lights and waving their swords around. • Neon Barbarians respect a well-spoken individual.A crew member moving within 4” can attempt a Savvy test.A 7+ means the Barbarians will ignore that character until the character attacks them. • Barbarians receive +1 Combat Skill versus any opponent that has fired a gun at them. • Note that any character carrying a sword of any kind will be challenged to fight,and cannot talk their way out of it.Blades,boarding sabers,glare swords,and ripper swords all count as swords. Scenarios & Settings Street Combatant table Use this table when a City marker reveal calls for it.Street Combatants always fight alone, and will try to attack and kill anyone they see, including other Street Combatants. All characters from this table are seriously bad news.They never accumulate more than 1 Stun marker at any time.You are strongly encouraged to use the new casualty tables in this expansion. D100 ENEMY SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI WEAPONS 01-10 Haywire Bot 4” +1 5 * Power claw Customer service says all you need to do is reboot the chip. • Armor save 5+.Cannot be Stunned. • Moves 4” randomly each turn.If it moves within 1” of any figure at any point of the move, it will engage in a Brawl. • If you win a Brawl against the Haywire Bot,roll 1D6+Savvy.On a 7+,the bot joins your side for the rest of the battle.Otherwise,inflict damage normally. 11-15 Mech-gladiator 6” +2 5 R Ripper sword A participant in one of the banned cyberization sports.Eventually the skull modifications drives them haywire. May reroll 1s when Brawling.If an opponent wins by only 1 point,the gladiator retreats 4” and is not Hit. 16-27 Assassin 6” +2 4 T Hand laser; Blade Someone wanted to pay to kill you specifically. If the figure that revealed the Assassin is removed from play,the Assassin leaves the battlefield immediately. 28-37 Roid-head 5” +1 5 R Fists equivalent to Power claw in damage. A mixture of rager drugs and extreme genetic upgrades has resulted in a heavily muscled monster.Seen as aspirational by many Roid-gangers. • The first “casualty” inflicted on the Roid-head is ignored.Cannot be Stunned. • Every activation,roll 1D6.On a 1,the Roid-head flips out and moves 8” in a random direction,Stunning and pushing away any figure contacted. 38-47 Tech-head 4” +1 4 T Plasma rifle; Blade Brimming with illegal cybernetics,often hacked to output excessive levels of performance. Tech-heads won’t shoot at Soulless or Bots unless attacked first.5+ Screen save. 48-55 Combat Bot 4” +2 5 A Rattle gun; Brutal melee weapon Someone activated a combat bot and sent it down the street,firing as it goes. Armor save 5+.Cannot be Stunned.Ignores Heavy trait on weapons. 56-63 Sinister 7” +1 4 A Claws (Melee, 2 damage) 132 Scenarios & Settings D100 ENEMY SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGH. AI WEAPONS Rumors abound of strange,insectoid creatures mimicking humanoids and preying on the unwary. Roll 2 dice when Brawling,and use the highest.If both roll over opponents score, inflict 2 Hits.Any weapons Hit is dodged on a D6 roll of 5+. When the Sinister dodges,move it 3” in a random direction. 64-68 Slasher 3” +2 X R Brutal melee weapon A burly,masked figure.Seemingly unstoppable. The Slasher cannot be eliminated.A weapons hit knocks it back 1”.Cannot be Stunned. 69-80 Criminal 4” +1 4 C Hand cannon; Blade A career criminal with a grudge against you for your past actions. If you eliminate them,roll 1D6: On a 1 you receive a Gang Rival.On a 6,you can cash in a 2 Credit bounty. 81-92 Gang Prospect 4” +0 4 A Handgun A desperado who has to prove themself to become a full gang member. No special rules. 93-00 Gun Bunny 4” +1 4 T 2 handguns A gunslinger out to prove something. May fire both handguns simultaneously. Resolving Enemies If you know who or what you are opposed by in the mission,each enemy is simply one of that type. If you are going into the area unaware of who is out to get you,the first revealed enemy requires a roll on the Street Fight Enemies table (see p.129).All enemies placed due to subsequent Suspect markers represent the same enemy type. City Markers A city is a living,chaotic place,and this does not change while a gun battle rages.City markers represent the unpredictable aspect of a Street Fight scenario.The first time you play,you may wish to omit them to keep the scenario from being too complicated.Of course,you may be the type to jump right in! If in use,at the end of the Slow Actions phase roll 1D6 on the table below.Note: Roll only once per turn,NOTfor each individual marker. D6 RESULT NOTES 1-3 Nothing happens – 4-5 Movement Randomly select a City marker and move it 6” towards the table edge furthest away. 6 Something interesting Place a City marker adjacent to the terrain feature closest to the last crew member to act. City markers are ignored by Suspect markers and enemies. 133 Scenarios & Settings If a player figure moves within 4” (regardless of Line of Sight) of a City marker,immediately remove the marker and roll D100 on the table below to determine what you found. D100 RESULT EFFECT 01-10 Jostled You get jostled by a rush of people. The character must halt immediately and is Stunned if they were not already. Roll 1D6: 1-3:	 The crowd disperses. 4-6:	 A Crowd marker (see 31-40,below) is placed,centered on the character. 11-15 Curiosity You notice something odd that seems like it was left behind. Place a marker randomly 6” from the character.If it is picked up (by any character, not just the spotter),roll a D6: 1-4:	 Just some garbage. 5-6:	 Grants you 2 Quest Clues. 16-30 Informer You encounter someone who has been trying to meet up. • Add a Quest Clue! 31-40 Crowd There must be a sale on. • The crowd takes up a 4”x 4” space and begins centered on the marker (which now counts as a Crowd marker). • Roll randomly to determine which way they are going.They will move 4” at the end of each Enemy Actions phase and blocks all Line of Sight.A character that ends up within the crowd must either stand still or move as the crowd moves, being carried along.They cannot take any actions while within the crowd.The crowd continues to move in the same direction.If they contact an obstacle they halt and turn to a random direction. • Firing on a character within Line of Sight of the crowd disperses them.It also immediately starts the Sirens! entry on this table.(No,you cannot deliberately fire on the crowd to disperse them.What kind of game do you think you are playing?) 41-45 Roadblock You can’t get there from here. • An area 4”x4” centered on the marker is impassable and cannot be fired across. 46-50 Bot-struction Construction bots descend on the area. • An area 4”x4” centered on the marker is taken up by the bots. • They will move randomly 4” at the end of each Enemy Actions phase. • The area cannot be moved or fired through.Characters caught in the construction zone at any point must roll 1D6+Savvy,requiring a 6+ to evade. Failures are handled by the construction bots and become casualties. 134 Scenarios & Settings D100 RESULT EFFECT 51-55 Reporter A news reporter has shown up to report on “local color”. • Place a figure randomly 6” from the character that spotted the marker.The reporter moves 4” in a random direction at the end of each Enemy Actions phase.They cannot be fired upon or attacked in any way. • If,at any point,gunfire occurs within Line of Sight of the reporter,this starts the Sirens! entry on this table. • Additionally,if a crew member fires a weapon or initiates a Brawl while in sight of the reporter,you receive an Enforcer Rival.This does not apply if returning fire in a Shootout,however. 56-70 Street combatant “Downtown is war”,as the Psych-Storm song goes. • Roll on the Street CombatantTable (p.132) to see who has shown up.They set up at least 6” from the character in the closest location that puts them out of sight. 71-75 It’s a set-up! You realize the enemy has set you up and this is going to turn into a problem real fast. • At the end of the current battle round,place a Suspect marker on the center of each of the four table edges.These markers are considered to be in pursuit (see 'Pursue',p.125) 76-80 Gang turf You notice the tell-tale signs of gang territory. • At the end of the following battle round,randomly roll on the Criminal Elements enemy table (core rules,p.94).Six enemies will show up with two figures on the center of each of three random table edges.They are looking to fight both sides,but will ignore Suspect markers. 81-90 Sirens! The law is arriving and you may not want to be here. • Start a “Siren clock” at 0.At the end of each battle round including the current one,the clock advances 1D6 ticks. • When it reaches 10,the law shows up: Place 6 Enforcers on the center of a table edge.They are looking to take down anyone they encounter,and will remove any Suspect or City marker within 4” of them.They will attempt to move within 6” of your crew before firing. • A crew member may surrender to a law officer in sight of them.See “Messing with the Law”,below. 91-00 Looking suspicious It could just be your imagination. • In the nearest terrain feature to the character,place a City marker and a Suspect marker. It’s a Complicated Situation It is possible for events to occur more than once,such as encountering reporters several times or multiple gangs showing up (to fight each other and you!).You gotta roll with the punches when you go downtown! 135 Scenarios & Settings Messing with the Law If a character surrenders to the law,you can be in one of three situations.If you have a current Bounty Hunter or Vigilante Rival,you are at least a Level 2 Perpetrator.If you have an Enforcer Rival you are Level 3. Level 1 Perpetrator If nobody in your crew has attacked the law officials in this scenario,the arrested character can make a 1D6+Savvy roll with a 6+,meaning they talk their way out of things.Failure means being detained for 1D6 campaign turns,with all their weapons other than those with the Pistol trait confiscated indefinitely. Level 2 Perpetrator A member of your crew has attacked the law officials,but the surrendering character did not.A Savvy test of 8+ is required.If you fail,you are detained for 1D6+2 campaign turns.In addition,all weapons are confiscated, regardless of the outcome. Level 3 Perpetrator If the surrendering character fired on the law officials,they are sent to a prison planet.They cannot be used again in this campaign (see New Campaigns boxout).While detained, characters can take no actions or experience any events.They recover from injuries normally. The End Game You always have to move off the table to complete a Street Fight scenario.You may escape through any table edge.If a building has interior access and extends off the table, you can escape through the building interior as well. Payoffs Holding the Field requires clearing all enemies and Suspect markers.Typically,you are better off just legging it.All post-game resolution is handled normally as per the core rules. New Campaigns When starting a new campaign,you may include one character that was previously sent to a prison planet.They bring with them their old profile,but will have been stripped of all equipment as well as Implants.They also bring with them 3 Enforcer Rivals (!) On the upside,you may add 1 Story Point, and they receive 3 XP for having survived the ordeal. Scenarios & Settings Scenarios & Settings 137 Salvage jobs are a new type of mission, based around exploring an area for possible valuables, resembling a treasure hunt in space.This game style tends to be more deliberate and exploration-driven while still presenting the chance for fierce gun battles. This new job type can be added into an ongoing campaign at any time. Players should note that Salvage missions are extremely random, and as such the difficulty can vary tremendously from between missions. Requirements You will need markers to indicate the following: Contacts: Likely opposition during the scenario.You will need around 10 of these. Salvage: Valuable scrap. 6 markers should be plenty. Points of Interest: Things you need to investigate.You will need 6 of these. What is Salvage? As defined by Unity law, if a ship is drifting in space and lacking a crew, it can be considered ‘salvage’. Properly licensed salvage operators may board the ship and strip it for valuables, provided all navigation data-files are handed over to the relevant authorities. In addition, the salvage team must de-orbit or detonate the ship if it is likely to provide a hazard. Salvage teams typically also conduct more conventional “treasure hunt” operations. Crashed surface wrecks and abandoned industrial facilities are home to interesting scraps of tech to those without qualms about stepping over a few shriveled corpses in the process. Finding a Salvage Job Looking for a salvage job requires a crew action in the campaign turn. Roll 1D6, and consult the table below: 1D6 ROLL SALVAGE OPTION 1 No job 2-3 Fee 4-5 Salvage job 6 Illegal job Using Salvage with other rules The Enemy Deployment Variables (p.44) and Escalating Battles (p.46) cannot be used. AI Variations (p.42) and Elite-level Enemies (p.48) can be used normally. Space requirements: Salvage missions can become cramped on a 2x2 table. 3x3 feet is recommended, and if this is not an option, consider reducing all movement distances by 1”. SALVAGE JOBS Scenarios & Settings 138 No job means no salvage is available this campaign turn. Fee means you must pay a 2 Credit (non-refundable) fee to accept the job. Salvage job means a job is available. Illegal job means an illegal job is available this campaign turn. You do not have to decide immediately if you will take the job.You can wait until you have finished your campaign actions as usual, before deciding. Rival attacks can still attack you, as usual.Any job offered is only available this campaign turn. If you skip it, or are prevented by Rivals, the chance is lost. Illegal Jobs Carrying out an illegal job means a chance of getting in trouble with the law. When rolling for post-game Rivals, roll 1D6: On a 1-4, you got away with it. On a 5-6, the authorities are on your trail, and you must do ONE of the following: • Pay a fine equal to the die roll in Credits. • Hand over all Salvage units obtained during the job. • Add an Enforcer Rival. Setting Up to Play Your Mission The normal Deployment Conditions and Notable Sights tables (core rulebook, pp.88- 89) are not used. Do not roll for a mission objective. The table can be set up using interior floor plans, but could also take place in a ruined colony, wrecked industrial site, or abandoned cave complex that used to be inhabited by something. If using floor plans, make sure there are exits towards each battlefield edge. Place Salvage Markers: Place 1D3+1 Salvage markers around the table, spread as evenly as possible.These represent valuable bits of electronics, mineral deposits, or other interesting snippets. Any crew member can pick up Salvage simply by moving into contact with the marker.When they do so,set the marker aside: the crew has gained 1 Salvage unit.A Salvage unit does not have to be carried around by a specific character,and cannot be lost during the game. Place Points of Interest: Place 1 Point of Interest marker close to the center of each battlefield quarter.These represent areas that showed up on your ship scanners as being potentially interesting. You will need to investigate all four to complete the mission. Deployment: Randomly select a battlefield edge. Split your crew into two groups that are as equal in size as possible. Each group is placed anywhere you like along the selected edge, provided: • All figures are within 2” of the battlefield edge. • There is at least 10” between the two groups. You are now ready to start playing. Note that you do not yet know what opposition you will be up against (or even if any opposition is present at all). There is no roll to Seize the Initiative. Playing the Game You must reveal all four Points of Interest, dealing with any problems you encounter en route. The Tension Track Advancing through an old ruin or a dead ship is unpleasant stuff: Anything could be lurking just out of sight, and the environment itself plays on the nerves, making the crew imagine threats behind every corner. As you play, you will track the level of Tension, a measure of how likely you are to encounter difficulties. At the end of the first round,Tension is set equal to half the crew size, rounded up. Keep a die at next to the battlefield area or use a piece of scrap paper to keep track.The higher the Tension level is, the larger the chance of encountering something. At the beginning of each round, roll 1D6: • If the roll is above the Tension score, raise Tension by +1. • If the roll is equal to or below Tension, reduce Tension by the number on the D6 die roll, and a Contact is spawned; see below. The Exploration Round If any Contacts or enemies are present, you will play a normal battle round. If there are no contacts or enemy figures on the board, the round is always considered an Exploration Round. During Exploration rounds, a reaction roll is not made at the start of the round. Instead, your crew may move in any order you like. Crew cannot Dash or use equipment during Exploration rounds. 139 Scenarios & Settings Contacts Contacts represent a high probability of enemy presence,such as scanner fluctuations, the sound of equipment,voices echoing down spaceship hallways,and so forth.When a Contact is spawned,a Contact marker is placed according to the following rules: • Randomly select a crew member. • Place a Contact marker at the closest point to the selected crew member that is not within 6” or line of sight of any crew member. • If multiple locations are equally suitable, place the marker at the location that would be closest to a Point of Interest. • Contacts markers are revealed and resolved if, at any point, they are either: • Within 6” and Line of Sight of a crew member, or • Within 3” of a crew member. When either condition occurs, roll 1D6 on the table below: D6 RESULT CONTACT EFFECT 1 “Beep, sir?” It was nothing after all. Remove the Contact marker. 2 “Are you reading it right?” Select a crew member who opines they have a bad feeling about this. Remove the Contact marker and modify Tension by +1. 3-5 “Hostiles!” You have encountered hostile forces. Proceed to the Hostiles! section below. 6 “We’ve got movement all over the place!” The scanner is going haywire. Remove the Contact marker, then spawn 2 new Contact markers near the crew member that triggered this result, as per the normal placement rules. Hostiles! If you encounter Hostiles for the first time, roll D100 to see what type of enemy you will be fighting in this mission, then check on the enemy table indicated by the result’s description to determine the enemy type. Whoever the enemy is, they will not be accompanied by any Unique Individuals. As you play the mission you will need to track how many times you roll each Hostiles! result. Mark this next to the Tension track. D100 RESULT HOSTILES! RESULT NOTES 01-25 Free for all! Looters, renegades, or other suspicious characters are roaming around. Determine a random opponent type from the Criminal Elements table (core rulebook, p.94). Enemies within one move of a Salvage marker must move into contact with it; then remove both the marker and the enemy figure from the battlefield. 26-40 Toughs Someone hired a bunch of goons to make sure nobody snoops around. Determine a random opponent type from the Hired Muscle table (core rules, p.96).Any foe with Defensive or Cautious AI is changed to Tactical. 140 Scenarios & Settings Scenarios & Settings D100 RESULT HOSTILES! RESULT NOTES 41-65 Rival team Another team has taken an interest in your site. Determine a random opponent type from the Interested Parties table (core rulebook, p.99). The enemies will fight normally, but reduce their Panic range by 1 (1-3 becomes 1-2, 1-2 becomes 1, 1 becomes Fearless). 66-100 Infestation This is the worst type of job. Determine a random opponent type from the Roving Threats table (core rulebook, p.101). Modify Tension by +6. Consult the table below to determine how many foes are placed.The Encounter number is the number of times you have rolled the Hostiles! result during this mission. ENCOUNTER NUMBER ENEMY FORCES 1st 2 basic enemies. 2nd 2 basic enemies, 1 specialist. 3rd 2 basic enemies, 1 lieutenant. All subsequent 2 basic enemies. Enemies should be placed in positions of Cover (if possible) on or within 1” of the marker. Newly placed enemies cannot act during the round in which they are placed. Enemy Actions Phase Scanner Check Contact markers that were already on the table at the start of the round will move during the Enemy Actions phase.This happens after all enemy forces have acted. To move a Contact marker, roll two D6 in separate colors (or one at a time).The darker color represents Aggression. If this roll is highest, the marker moves this many inches towards the nearest crew figure. The lighter color represents Chance. If this roll is highest, the marker moves this many inches in a random direction. If the dice are equal, the marker remains in place. Contacts will move around terrain as required. They will halt the move if they would cross the battlefield edge. If a moving marker would be detected, roll to resolve it immediately.The enemy forces cannot take any actions during the round when this happens. Points of Interest Points of Interest are investigated automatically when a character comes within 3” and Line of Sight of the marker. Roll D100 on the table below, then remove the Point of Interest marker from the game. The Tension adjustment column lists the modifier to the current Tension score. D100 RESULT REVEAL EFFECT TENSION ADJUSTMENT 01-05 Obstacle Acid,industrial waste,radiation or collapsing ceilings. A hazardous obstacle immediately extends 2” in every direction of the marker.This may affect nearby figures.All figures in the area take a Damage 0 hit that ignores any Screens worn.The area remains dangerous for the rest of the battle. Enemies will not voluntarily move into an obstacle. Reduce by 2 06-10 Environmental threat Some old equipment that is falling apart and ready to spew something dangerous all over, unless you can just… The crew member makes a 1D6+Savvy test. On a 5+ they prevent the leak. Otherwise the crew member and all figures within 1D6” of them take a Damage 1 hit ignoring Screens. The danger does not remain. Reduce by 1 11-14 Map readouts You find a local map that gives you a better idea of your surroundings. Randomly select a Point of Interest on the table, and move it 4” in any direction. Reduce by 1 15-19 Secure device You find a secured lockbox of some sort. Place a marker indicating the box where the Point of Interest was.A crew member that moves into contact may make a 1D6+Savvy test. A roll of 5+ opens the box granting a Loot roll (usable immediately). No immediate modifier. Each failed attempt to open increases Tension by 1. 142 Scenarios & Settings D100 RESULT REVEAL EFFECT TENSION ADJUSTMENT 20-23 The air is thick in here You keep thinking you heard something. Increase by 3 24-28 Dead spacer Whoever this was, they didn’t make it. Roll once on the Loot table to see if there is any useful kit left.You may use anything you find immediately. Increase by 1 29-32 We need to hurry Best not to linger in a place like this. Increase by 1 for each remaining Point of Interest 33-36 Dead end There’s nothing here. Reduce by 1 37-41 Information station You find a computer, library, or diary that can shed some light into this place. Mark the item in the same location as the Point of Interest marker.A character in contact may make a 1D6+Savvy test to decipher it and receive the Tension reduction listed on the right. Reduce Tension by the modified Savvy die roll 42-46 Hot find You find some good salvage, but someone clearly came through here already. Receive 1D3 Salvage units. Increase by 1 per Salvage unit just found 47-50 Survivors discovered Someone is alive here after all! Place 1D3 Hardened Colonists (core rulebook, p.172).They will fight alongside you for the rest of the mission. If at least one of them survives the mission or exit the battlefield, claim +1 Story Point. Increase by 2 51-54 Hornets’ nest The scanner is suddenly beeping like crazy. Place a Contact marker near the revealing crew member. Reduce by 2 55-59 Lure? A dangerous find, but oh so tempting. Place a Contact marker randomly 6” from the crew member.When a crew member moves into contact with it, roll 1D6. On a 1-3, place Contact markers equal to the roll. On a 4-6, receive Salvage units equal to the roll. Reduce by 1 60-64 All clear This sector has been abandoned for some time. Reduce by 3 143 Scenarios & Settings D100 RESULT REVEAL EFFECT TENSION ADJUSTMENT 65-68 Incursion The Converted are here! A 6 figure Converted Acquisition team (core rulebook, p.101, Roving Threats table: 4 basic, 1 specialist, 1 lieutenant) will arrive at the start of next round.They are placed at the center of a random battlefield edge and will fight both sides. They can reveal Contacts the same way you can and are treated as hostiles by any existing enemies. They ignore Points of Interest. If you are already fighting Converted troops, you are in for an especially bad day, as these are simply reinforcements, and will join any existing foes to fight you. Reduce by 3 69-74 Cache You find a small pile of interesting-looking bits of scrap. Receive 1D3 Salvage units. No change 75-78 Security bot You’ve found an old inactive security robo… oh wait! Oh no! The crew member makes a 1D6+Savvy test. On a 6+, you can shut down the robot before it activates. If this fails, place a Mk II Security Bot (core rulebook, p.107).The bot will happily shoot at both sides, moving first in each Enemy Action phase. On a natural 6, you manage to program the bot to fight on your side, though it remains AI controlled. (No, you can’t keep it afterwards.) Reduce by 2 79-82 Creature “Ow! Ow! Nice doggy! Ow!” A Sand Runner (core rulebook, p.107) hops out of its hiding place. Place it on the Point of Interest marker.The crew member may make a 1D6+Savvy test. On a 5+, the creature likes you and will fight on your side for the rest of the mission. It has a Reaction score of 3 (Bots and Soulless must modify the roll by -3. Swift by +1). If the roll fails, it is hostile and will attack both sides. No change 144 Scenarios & Settings D100 RESULT REVEAL EFFECT TENSION ADJUSTMENT 83-85 Rival trap It was all a set-up! Randomly select one of your Rivals. 6 of them (4 basic, 1 specialist, 1 lieutenant) will arrive from the center of a random battlefield edge at the start of the next round. Remove all enemy figures and Contact markers. Tension is permanently set to 0 for the rest of the mission. If you have no Rivals, ignore this event, but increase Tension as indicated to the right. Permanently set Tension to 0 if a Rival shows up. Increase by 3 otherwise. 86-91 Valuable find Sometimes it pays to look. You find goods worth 1D3+1 Credits. No change 92-96 Interesting find This will need to be examined later. After the mission, you may make a Loot roll. No change 97-99 Evac time The entire site is unstable, collapsing or being filled with something bad. The danger area immediately extends into a 1” radius from where the Point of Interest was. At the end of every future round, it will extend 1D6” in every direction. Immediately remove all figures and Contact Markers caught in the danger zone as casualties, while Points of Interest caught in the area are destroyed. Reduce by 10 100 Doomsday protocol You have uncovered something dreadful: A nano-swarm doomsday device intended to purge the site in case of an accident. Run! Place a Contact Marker at the location of the Point of Interest marker to represent the swarm. At the end of every future round, it moves 1D6” towards the nearest figure to it (crew, enemy, or Contact Marker). If it makes contact, the target is destroyed (crew become casualties), and another swam is created and immediately moves as described above. The swarms cannot be destroyed or held at bay and no known defensive device protects against contact. Reduce by 10 145 Scenarios & Settings Scenarios & Settings 146 Ending the Mission You may end the mission at any time by exiting your crew across any battlefield edge. You retain all Salvage you acquired during the mission. Post-game Rewards Experience points are awarded normally. To win the mission, you must have resolved and removed all Point of Interest markers, including any that were placed during the mission. You do NOT receive the normal Loot roll and Battlefield finds rolls. Instead, your rewards depend on the Point of Interest and Salvage markers you found. Points of Interest First, there is a chance that you found something notable. For every Point of Interest you completed, roll 1D6: D6 RESULT YOU FIND 1-4 Just space junk 5 An interesting bit of tech worth 1 unit of Salvage. 6 Something notable. Roll for a Discovery, below. Discoveries For every Discovery you made, roll D100 below: D100 RESULT PAY 01-40 You found something that might be valuable with some restoration. Roll once on the Loot table (core rulebook, p.131). 41-70 Just a bit of scrap after all. Add 1 unit of Salvage. 71-85 Interesting data. Add 1 Quest Rumor. 86-100 Valuable trinkets.Add 1D3 Credits. Scenarios & Settings 147 Salvage Scrapper: a merchant that trades in junk, salvage, and broken parts. – Unity agent guide to Fringe spacer slang. In Post-battle Step 4. Get paid (core rulebook, p.120), tally up how many units of Salvage you have obtained. To determine what the Scrappers are willing to offer for your Salvage, carry out the following process: Roll three times on the Loot table (core rulebook, p.131). For each result, roll 1D6 to determine how many units of Salvage you had to trade in. Treat a roll of a 1 as a 2.You may obtain any of the items you can afford. Note that you cannot convert Credits to Salvage units. You can visit the Scrappers once per campaign turn, and may opt to hang on to Salvage units if you don’t find anything that interests you. Invasion checks and Salvage There are no Invasion checks after a Salvage battle. It’s just scrap metal, right? When purchasing any of the following, you may cash in Salvage to offset the cost in Credits. 1 unit of Salvage equals 1 Credit ONLY when purchasing: • Ship repairs • Ship modules • Bot upgrades Difficulty Adjustments If you are using Elite-level enemies in the campaign, they can be used in a Salvage mission as well. If you want to make the game easier, start all missions at Tension 0. If you want to make the game harder, add +1 Tension every time a Contact marker is removed from the battlefield for any reason. Mack struggled to hold his breath and twisted at his helmet. He never could get used to the smell from a blown enviro-suit battery pack. “You appear to be in considerable distress” the Soulless observed. “Considerable.” Mack coughed, and threw the helmet on their pile of salvage. The mechanical being studied him before its communications indicator blinked again. “Is your life support module still functional?” Mack looked down.A thick, blue liquid slowly dripped from his belt pack. “No, it took an energy blast right to the battery. I don’t think there’s….” He paused and looked at the Soulless. It stared back with its customary lack of emotion. “Or do you mean me?” “Yes.” “Yeah, I’m fine.Temporary disability is all. Like when you swallow something too fast.” “I have no concept of that experience.” The Soulless ejected the depleted power cell from its hyperblaster and clipped the weapon into the carrying position. “Yeah, I guess you don’t. It’s like…” Mack paused. How did he end up in this wreck of a space station, trying to explain to a robot how human breathing works? Hell of a story actually. It all began… 148 Scenarios & Settings Fringe space is a confusing, chaotic, and often violent place.While some worlds – especially those patrolled by Unity naval forces – exist in relative peace and quiet for prolonged periods of time, the sort of places a freelancer crew visits are frequently less stable. Use the following rules to make the Fringe feel more anarchic and wild as you travel deeper into uncontrolled space.This may not be suitable for every campaign, so you may opt to use it for some systems you visit and not for others. If using this system, when arriving on a new world, roll 1D6. A roll of 4+ indicates the world is Unstable. You may opt to use a 5+ roll if you prefer a less chaotic environment. Instability An Unstable world always maintains an Instability score which is tracked by the player.When you arrive on the world, it begins at +1 Instability. During the Invasion step of every campaign turn, add 1D6 to the total. Adjust the total by an additional +1 for every active Rival on this world. Subtract -1 if you completed a Patron job this campaign turn. Subtract -1 if you Held the Field against a Roving Threat this campaign turn. If this causes Instability to reach or exceed 10, make a D100 roll on the table below, reduce the Instability score by the amount listed, and apply the listed effect: fringe world strife D100 RESULT CHAOS INSTABILITY REDUCTION EFFECT 01-10 Hooligans -5 While trying to go about your business, a bunch of ’roided-up hooligans cause a riot. You cannot perform any Explore or Trade crew actions during the next campaign turn. 11-24 Criminal Gang -5 Roll once on the Criminal Elements encounter subtable (core rules, p.94).This gang has set up shop threatening local businesses. Until you clear them out, all post-battle payouts on this world are reduced by 1 Credit. Instead of taking another job, you can go after the gang at any time. No roll is required to find them. Set up a Fight Off mission (core rules, p.90). Add 1 Specialist and an Enemy Boss Unique Individual to the enemy force. Receive 1 Story Point if you kill the boss in Brawling combat. 25-36 Enemy Infiltration -5 A Converted Infiltrator squad (core rules, p.101) has arrived on the planet. To go after them, use the Track crew action, similar to tracking down a Rival. If you find them, you may fight them as your job for this campaign turn. Set up a Fight Off mission (core rules, p.90).The enemy squad has a +1 Combat Skill and includes 1 additional Specialist. Until the squad has been destroyed, you must check for Invasion every campaign turn. 37-46 Heating Up -3 Tensions are getting out of hand, and people want to scrap.Add a Rival randomly selected from the Criminal Elements subtable (core rules, p.94). 47-54 Sabotage -7 During a running gun battle, your ship was caught in the crossfire and took a beating.Your ship takes 1D6+1 points of hull damage. 55-66 Raiders -7 Next campaign turn, you will be attacked by scavengers. Resolve this as a Rival attack Raid scenario. Roll 1D6 to determine the attackers: 1-2: Raiders 3: Psychos 4-5: Pirates 6: Planetary Nomads Add +2 to the enemy numbers. 149 Scenarios & Settings 150 Scenarios & Settings D100 RESULT CHAOS INSTABILITY REDUCTION EFFECT 67-72 Crackdown -10 The authorities decide to make examples of the crew. Unless you leave next campaign turn, roll three D6 in the Upkeep step, and discard every die rolling a 5 or a 6.Add the remaining dice together and pay that many credits in fines or have your ship confiscated. 73-86 Economic Collapse -10 The economy has fallen to pieces. For now, you cannot take Trade actions, and all mission payouts are -1 Credit. When collecting your payment after each mission, roll 1D6, adding +1 if you completed a Patron job, and +4 if you finished a Quest. On a result of 6+, the economic malaise is over. 87-94 Invasion Imminent NA An alien invasion force is en route, and everyone is scrambling to get away. After the next campaign turn, the world is automatically invaded. Roll 1D6 to determine who is coming: 1-2: Converted Acquisition 3: Abductor Raiders 4-5: Swarm Brood 6: K’Erin Colonists 151 Scenarios & Settings D100 RESULT CHAOS INSTABILITY REDUCTION EFFECT 95-100 Civil War NA The world erupts in a shooting war next campaign turn. If you opt to remain, you will be caught up in the fighting. Roll twice on the Interested Parties table (core rules, p.99).This represents the two sides struggling for control.You may side with either of them at your choice, but once chosen, you cannot switch sides. Each mission will be an Opportunity Mission against the opposing force.Add 2 additional regular enemies and 1 additional Specialist to the enemy force (for a total of 3 additional figures). You receive +1 Credit for each such mission undertaken. During the Check for Galactic War Progress step, roll on the table normally (core rules, p.126).A result of “Unity Victorious” indicates your faction has won the war.You receive 1D6 Credits in bonus pay (not to exceed the number of missions you have done) and due to your war-hero status, you may immediately remove 1 random Rival from your list. A result of “Lost to Unity” indicates your side lost. You must immediately try to leave next campaign turn, similar to if the world had fallen to invasion. If you are unable to leave, your ship and all Credits are confiscated before you are booted off-world on a shuttle. You may leave at any time before the war is over (i.e. you are not conscripted into service) Any result of “NA” means Instability is no longer tracked: The world has bigger problems to worry about! 152 Scenarios & Settings The core mechanics for ship loans were designed to be simple and unintrusive. However, if you seek a more in-depth roleplaying experience, this section offers expanded details about whose money is really paying for your ship.This does mean more things to track, but gives your ship loan more narrative bite. These rule options are best added when starting a new campaign, in which case work through the process below when creating your ship. If you have to obtain a ship in-game (either because you opted to use the Trailmaker’s Tookit option to begin without a ship, or because your ship has been destroyed), you may work through this process once per campaign turn to determine what kind of offer is available to you. Step 1: The Loan’s Origin Roll on the table below to determine who is willing to extend a loan to you. D100 RESULT LOAN ORIGINATOR NOTES 01-15 Unity Program Occasionally, Unity-funded organizations will sponsor starship loans in order to fund independent economic development. 16-25 Sector Government Program Multi-system governments often view private traders as a valuable addition to local trade. 26-60 Corporate Funding freelancers can be a viable investment (or a way to write off cash as “business investments” if said freelancer turns out to be less than law-abiding). 61-85 Free Trader A private loan originating from one of the free traders who made it big. 86-100 Suspicious Character Hey, you want a ship? I’ll hook you up with a ship. Yeah, these terms are standard, no need to worry kid. Hey, I like you. Where did you say your family lived? Step 2: The Loan Amount The base value of the loan will be the cost of the ship in question, as indicated on p.31 of the core rules.Whether during character creation or a loan taken during play, the following adjustments are made: • Unity Program loans must add +5 Credits due to fees and paperwork. • Free Trader or Suspicious Character loans must add +1D6 Credits due to personal whims. LOANS: WHO DO YOU OWE? 153 Scenarios & Settings Step 3: The Interest Rate of the Loan Enforcement Roll D100 on the table below to determine how quickly interest will accrue. Note that, as we are playing a game of space adventure, these numbers do not correlate to how interest rates work in real life (hopefully). After making your payment for the turn, increase the amount owed according to the ‘Low Interest’ column if you owe 30 credits or less, or the ‘High Interest’ column if you owe 31 Credits or more. D100 RESULT INTEREST RATES LOW INTEREST HIGH INTEREST NOTES 01-10 Very Cheap +1 +1 A Free Trader loan treats this result as Cheap instead. 11-40 Cheap +1 +2 41-70 Average +1 +3 71-85 Expensive +2 +3 A Suspicious Character loan treats this result as Very Expensive instead. 86-100 Very Expensive +2 +1D6 (rolled each turn) A Unity Program loan treats this result as Expensive instead. Step 4: Enforcement Thresholds Roll on the table below to determine at what points the loan originator will attempt to collect on your loan. Note that, in some cases, the amount of money financed would be above the first Threshold you will need to supply enough cash up front to reduce the amount below Threshold 1. D100 RESULT AGGRESSIVENESS THRESHOLD 1 THRESHOLD 2 01-10 Very Casual 75 90 11-20 Casual 65 80 21-45 Moderate 60 75 46-75 Aggressive 55 70 76-100 Very Aggressive 50 65 Loan interest During the normal Upkeep step, your loan will increase as discussed in the core rules (p.76), but using the amounts indicated above. Note that all increases take place after any payments have been done for the turn. Loan enforcement Each loan will have two thresholds as shown in the table above. Use the thresholds that match the aggressiveness of your ship’s loan arrangement.When your debt crosses either of the two thresholds, make a D100 roll on the Enforcement table below to check the method of enforcement.Additionally, for every 5 credits of debt beyond the second threshold, make another D100 enforcement roll. 154 Scenarios & Settings Example: If your thresholds are 60 and 75 credits, you will face enforcement at 60, 75, 85, 95 and so forth. METHOD UNITY PROGRAM LOCAL SECTOR CORPORATE FREE TRADER SUSPICIOUS CHARACTER Fees 01-20 +5 Credits 01-20 +5 Credits 01-30 +6 Credits 01-15 +1D6+2 Credits 01-25 +2D6 Credits Collectors 21-35 21-35 31-55 16-40 26-40 Collectors, Fringe-style 36-45 36-50 56-70 41-65 41-75 Temporary seizure 46-75 51-75 71-85 66-80 76-85 Permanent seizure 76-100 76-100 86-100 81-100 86-100 Enforcement by Unity grunts Enforcers Corporate security Bounty hunters Bounty hunters Fees and penalties Even in Space, you can’t escape the fine print. Each time this enforcement method is rolled, a loan fee of the indicated amount is added to the loan. It is possible this may trigger another enforcement action. Collectors An intergalactic collection agency is now on your tail. Every campaign turn during ‘Step 1.Upkeep and Ship repairs’ you must roll 1D6+1: If the roll is equal to or below the number of campaign turns you have spent on the current world, they catch up with you, and you are assessed a fine of 3D6 Credits. If you are unable to pay the fine in full immediately, it is added to your loan, and you must add a Bounty Hunter Rival to your roster immediately. Either way, you may then delete the Collectors from your list of problems. Note that you can have multiple Collectors chasing you at the same time, with multiple potential fines. Collectors, Fringe-style An intergalactic collection agency is on your tail… and they have guns.Add a Rival to your list as per “Collection Squads”, below. Each time this result is obtained, another squad is added to your Rivals list.They are treated as a normal Rival for all rules purposes.As they are often “free contractors” they will not stop hunting you, even if you do catch up on your payments.They must be dealt with like any other Rival. If they chase you down, you may pay them 10 Credits to get them off your back and remove them from your roster. Temporary Seizure A warrant is out for your ship. Every campaign turn, when assessing ship interest roll 2D6. On a 2-5, your ship is seized by local authorities until it can be paid back to below Threshold 1. Interest will still accrue while the ship is impounded, unless the loan originator is Unity or a Sector Government. Note down the amount of debt owed when the ship is seized.You must decrease your outstanding loan value to 10 Credits below 155 Scenarios & Settings Scenarios & Settings the amount owed at the time of seizure to get your ship back or cancel the outstanding warrant. Rolling this status multiple times increases the seizure range by 1 each time (2-6, 2-7, and so on). Permanent Seizure A warrant is out for your ship and they mean business. Every campaign turn, roll 2D6. On a 2-6, your ship is seized permanently by local authorities, and permanently lost. You can cancel the warrant by decrease your outstanding loan value to 10 Credits below the amount owed when the warrant was issued. Rolling this status multiple times increases the seizure range by 1 each time (2-6, 2-7, and so on). Collection Squads Any Rivals obtained due to loans will be of the type listed in the table above. Unlike regular Rivals, they will always follow you from world to world, though they can be fought off as normal. Fight it out: When someone comes to seize your ship, you can choose to fight it out: Set up a battle against Enforcers (core rules, p.96),adding +2 basic enemies to their number. Set up in the center of the table,at least 12” from a table edge.The enemy arrives from two randomly selected battlefield edges,with their forces split evenly between the two edges. Then randomly determine which table edge you must escape across. If at least one crew member escapes the battle, you can leave off-world.The warrant remains in place, and an Enforcer Rival is added to your roster. If you are a little stuck for inspiration or you enjoy seeing what the dice come up with, you can use the tables below to generate a few quick names. Simply roll D100 on each of the columns below to name your ship, the world you are visiting, or the colony you are exploring. World Names Generator The world you are arriving at is named (roll D100 to establish system name, then roll 1D6 to establish the planet number within the system): Example: 43 and 3 would mean we are on the world of Gough III D100 WORLD 01-04 Samsonov 05-08 Foch 09-12 Pershing 13-16 Cadorna 17-20 Monash 21-24 Mackensen 25-28 Falkenhayn 29-32 Byng 33-36 Lanrezac 37-40 Allenby 41-44 Gough 45-48 Currie 49-52 Danilov D100 WORLD 53-56 Joffre 57-60 Petain 61-64 Brusilov 65-68 Potiorek 69-72 Putnik 73-76 Fuller 77-80 Birdwood 81-84 Moltke 85-88 Sarrail 89-92 Goltz 93-96 Maude 97-100 Nivelle Name Generation Tables 157 Scenarios & Settings Colony Names Generator If you need to know the name of the colony you are visiting, roll D100 twice. Example: 72 and 19 means you have arrived at scenic Willet’s Road. D100 PART 1 01-04 Ingram’s 05-08 Larsen’s 09-12 Greenway’s 13-16 Mustaine’s 17-20 Kevill’s 21-24 Duplantier’s 25-28 Sattler’s 29-32 Hetfield’s 33-36 Friden’s 37-40 Ryan’s 41-44 Gossow’s 45-48 Parkes’ 49-52 Hegg’s 53-56 Dickinson’s 57-60 Shelton’s 61-64 Scalzi’s 65-68 Lindberg’s 69-72 Willet’s 73-76 Halford’s 77-80 Baker’s 81-84 Lee’s 85-88 Cavaleras’ 89-92 Plant’s 93-96 Nasic’s 97-100 Bryntse’s D100 PART 2 01-04 Ridge 05-08 Peace 09-12 Sanctuary 13-16 Mile 17-20 Road 21-24 Hope 25-28 Preserve 29-32 Point 33-36 Landing 37-40 Creek 41-44 Valley 45-48 Gorge 49-52 Redemption 53-56 Rise 57-60 Drift 61-64 Field 65-68 Place 69-72 Port 73-76 Hills 77-80 Salvation 81-84 Prayer 85-88 Isolation 89-92 Reach 93-96 Entry 97-100 Rest 158 Scenarios & Settings Ship Names Generator Your ship is called “The…” (roll D100 twice). Example: 34 and 57 would produce The Majestic Raccoon. If you prefer a more traditional naval feel, only generate part 1, and optionally add “The” at the front. Example: 54 would be The Loyal. D100 PART 1 01-04 Exuberant 05-08 Chivalrous 09-12 Dependable 13-16 Adventurous 17-20 Fierce 21-24 Invincible 25-28 Plucky 29-32 Determined 33-36 Majestic 37-40 Brave 41-44 Independent 45-48 Reliable 49-52 Proud 53-56 Loyal 57-60 Furious 61-64 Courageous 65-68 Ambitious 69-72 Regal 73-76 Stalwart 77-80 Fearsome 81-84 Magnificent 85-88 Unsurpassable 89-92 Inexhaustable 93-96 Indispensable 97-100 Curious D100 PART 2 01-04 Otter 05-08 Traveler 09-12 Badger 13-16 Hedgehog 17-20 Weasel 21-24 Dingo 25-28 Explorer 29-32 Rabbit 33-36 Way 37-40 Ferret 41-44 Cougar 45-48 Pathfinder 49-52 Beaver 53-56 Mongoose 57-60 Raccoon 61-64 Squirrel 65-68 Scout 69-72 Tidings 73-76 Possum 77-80 Hamster 81-84 Intruder 85-88 Outrider 89-92 Hawk 93-96 Falcon 97-100 Wasp 159 Scenarios & Settings Corporate Patron Names Generator If you have picked up a Corporate Patron, why not make a roll to see what they are called. Roll D100 twice. Example: A roll of 11 and 47 means we will be working for Calibrated Acquisitions. D100 PART 1 01-04 Interstellar 05-08 Agile 09-12 Calibrated 13-16 Synergistic 17-20 Customized 21-24 Unified 25-28 Galactic 29-32 Optimized 33-36 Accelerated 37-40 Xenomorphic 41-44 Diversified 45-48 Conglomerated 49-52 United 53-56 Responsive 57-60 Integrated 61-64 Universal 65-68 Associated 69-72 Incorporated 73-76 Dynamic 77-80 Reactive 81-84 Advanced 85-88 Optimized 89-92 Sector 93-96 Extra-solar 97-100 Orbital D100 PART 2 01-04 Implementations 05-08 Solutions 09-12 Sequences 13-16 Aggregates 17-20 Enterprises 21-24 Deliveries 25-28 Composites 29-32 Amalgamations 33-36 Connections 37-40 Executives 41-44 Holdings 45-48 Acquisitions 49-52 Logistics 53-56 Resolutions 57-60 Defenses 61-64 Securities 65-68 Procurements 69-72 Proficiencies 73-76 Resources 77-80 Operations 81-84 Accounts 85-88 Assets 89-92 Interactions 93-96 Equities 97-100 Investments 160 Scenarios & Settings 161 BUG HUNT Introduction4 Character Creation 10 Main Rules 14 The Campaign Turn 22 Mission Generation 24 The Battle Round 38 Post-Battle42 Appendices47 Galactic Timeline 55 BUG HUNT Contents Introduction 164 Adventure Wargaming 164 Conventions of the Game 166 Norms of the Game 167 Main Characters and Grunts 168 Ability Scores 169 Weapon Ratings 169 The Mission Structure 169 Special Thanks 169 Guilty Parties 169 Character Creation 170 Main Characters 170 Combat Teams  173 Regiment Flavor Table 173 Main Rules 174 Terrain Types 174 Line of Sight 174 Cover 175 MOVEMENT 176 Enemy Movement 176 COMBAT 177 Brawling 177 Resolving Hits 178 WEAPON AND GEAR  179 UNUSUAL SITUATIONS 180 MOVIE MAGIC 181 The Campaign Turn 182 SPECIAL ASSIGNMENTS 183 Mission Generation 184 MISSION SET-UP 184 Vital and Critical Objectives 185 TACTICAL LOCATIONS 191 Investigating 191 CONTACTS 192 Moving Contact Markers 192 Detecting Contact Markers 192 “Beep… Sir?” 193 ENEMY TABLE 194 Enemy Variants 196 Pack Leaders 197 The Battle Round 198 Actions 198 SPAWN POINTS 199 ENEMY MOVEMENT 200 ENDING THE MISSION 201 Post-Battle 202 POST-BATTLE SEQUENCE 202 Appendices 207 PROBLEM SOLVING 207 Quick Tests 207 Opposed Tests 207 Wits Tests  207 Modifiers 207 SIGNALS (Optional Rule) 208 CO-OP CAMPAIGNS 209 ENLISTING AS A BUG HUNTER  212 MUSTERING OUT TO FIVE PARSECS 213 QUICK REFERENCE 214 GALACTIC TIMELINE 215 BUG HUNT INDEX 223 163 CONTENTS Introduction In Bug Hunt – a variant of Five Parsecs from Home – you take charge of a “Hunter Squad” tasked with going into deep-space wrecks, abandoned colonies, or decrepit space stations to clear out any hostile alien lifeforms found there. This is not honorable combat against a foe that believes in self-preservation or a negotiated truce – it’s brutal, dirty fighting at close quarters, lasting until the last lifeform crawls from the battle site. As you play, your characters will gain in experience and reputation, hopefully earning promotions and commendations… or at least five days of R&R all paid for. Bug Hunt is a standalone game, but allows characters to be transferred to (or from) Five Parsecs from Home, allowing you to pursue an expanded game universe. Adventure Wargaming Like Five Parsecs from Home, Bug Hunt is an adventure wargame. Instead of faceless battles between generic armies, it follows a personal story that unfolds as you play.You will take your troopers up against the alien hordes over multiple battles, establishing an ongoing narrative as you do so. Whereas Five Parsecs from Home put you in the roles of a ragtag band of adventurers, this time you have friends: Well-trained soldiers that take the field with you and will fight (and die!) to help accomplish your mission. However, the core of your experience is your Introduction trio of troopers.Will they make it through their tour of duty, or will they perish on some rock? The game differs from a normal wargame in a number of ways. The game assumes that a campaign is being played, with each game informing the next. Gaining experience and reputation will determine your chances of future success.This is especially notable if you bring characters over from Five Parsecs from Home, or muster out to go adventuring after completing your military career. The results during a campaign suggest their own interpretations and story ideas as patterns emerge.Was your team’s Intel screwed up and did you get swarmed with monsters twice in a row? That’s probably an incompetent officer somewhere in the chain of command. Maybe you should name them? The game is open ended.The military has its own criteria for success, but you must weigh the survival of your troopers versus the need to achieve your goals.Are you cold enough to sacrifice an entire fire team to take that last objective? Although the game is written to be winnable, balance is not built-in on a battle-by-battle basis. Sometimes it is an easy ride. Sometimes the aliens are wall-to-wall and it’s all you can do to cling on. Whether you are entering Unified Space for the first time, or you are an old hand, keep your eyes peeled on that motion tracker. Introduction Conventions of the Game Game Length Bug Hunt is played in campaign turns.After creating your hunter squad, each turn moves through three stages. First, any trooper not resting up in Sick Bay can apply for special assignments in which troopers can receive training that boosts their abilities. The squad then undertakes a mission together, with a miniature-based tabletop battle at its heart. Missions proceed in rounds, each round representing a few minutes of activity or only a few moments of time during battle. Each round ends when every figure on each side has had a chance to do something. Finally, a post-battle stage resolves long- term consequences such as injuries and deaths, and hands out Experience Point rewards to the trooper, and Reputation rewards to the squad itself. A campaign goes on for as many turns as you like.You can play a single mission or a series of connected missions, while some players prefer to follow a single personal character, ending the campaign only if the character dies. Others decide on a set number of campaign turns, or just play until they feel their squad’s story has been told. The game needn’t be played solo. If you’d like to play with a friend or two, simply split the crew between you, and work together to overcome the challenges of the universe. Game Scale We typically refer to an individual model in the game as a figure or character. Figures belonging to the human side are usually referred to in the rules as troopers, while the opposing side are known as enemies (or sometimes from the human perspective as “aliens”). Any ability score bonuses or modifiers are based on the figure in question. Each miniature figure represents a single character in the game world.You can use any scale of figures you enjoy, though you will need to identify individual troopers. The game rules are written to work well with both 15mm and 28mm figures.As the distances that feel satisfying in 15mm games also tend to match typical distances used in 28mm games, this means no adjustments are typically required. Players using particularly small-scale figures should adjust some distances, especially with regards to climbing. Counting all distances given in inches as centimeters instead works great for smaller figures. All measurements in Bug Hunt are given in inches. Players using 15mm scale miniatures may prefer to read all measurements as centimeters. If so, weapon ranges will still look better in inches, but movement can feel a bit quick. All figures should be based individually, so each figure can move on its own.This is typical for science fiction games, but may present a challenge for fans of very small figure ranges (such as 6mm miniatures, which have a long sci-fi association). Dice Basics Bug Hunt uses common six-sided dice (“D6”), but also the less common dice such as a ten- sided die (“D10”) or twelve-sided die (“D12”), available from many hobby shops and game retailers, whether individually, or as part of a polyhedral set. When referring to rolling multiple dice together, the number of dice is given before the type of dice, so that “2D6” means rolling two six-sided dice and “2D10” means rolling two ten-sided dice. Unless otherwise stated, you would add the result of the two dice together, although this game also includes 166 Introduction occasions where multiple dice are rolled together to produce multiple, distinct results; such circumstances may be indicated by terms such as “two D6” rather than “2D6”. Sometimes, you will be asked for a modified roll, adding or subtracting a number to the dice roll for the final result. For example, if you see “2D6+2”, this means roll two six-sided dice, add them together, and then add 2 for the result.A roll may also ask for a roll to be adjusted by the ability score of a character; for example, 2D6+Combat Skill. Additionally, you may be asked to roll “D100”. Unless you are fortunate enough to have a one-hundred-sided die, this means rolling the D10 twice, the first result for ‘tens’ and the second for ‘units’, to generate a number between 1 (01) and 100 (00). So, a result of 5 then 8 would be 58. Rerolls and Natural Rolls “Rerolling” always means picking up the die or dice and rolling again, ignoring the original result. If a rule refers to the natural result of a die roll, it means the number shown on the die before applying any modifiers. For example, a roll of a 2 with a +2 modifier is a “natural 2” with a final score of a 4. Random Direction Rolls The game occasionally requires finding a random direction.You can purchase various “direction dice”, but a simple solution is to roll a D10 and use the raised tip as the direction. Norms of the Game The rules assume player-controlled characters facing opponents controlled by the game system (the “enemy”).The actions an enemy may take are defined and described on page 198. If the rules say you “may” do something, you can choose not to. If the rules say you “must” or “will” do something, you are required to do so. By default, the game rules assume the player will pre-measure distances as they play.You may opt to commit to a move or shot before measuring, if you prefer. In multi-player games, all players should agree before the campaign begins. Game Currencies During gameplay you will be tracking a number of different factors.The primary ones are: Experience Points (XP) – These are earned by particular characters and measure their progress as they learn (if they survive!) Reputation – This is a general measure of how famous you are and how much influence you have with the troops around you. Missions completed – This is tracked for each character and is used to determine how much time they have left in their career. Essential Miniatures If you are an experienced science fiction gamer, you may already have a collection of miniatures and terrain ready to go. If you’re new to this, it may be overwhelming to get started, especially in terms of miniatures. These rules assume you are playing with miniatures, but paper figures are gaining popularity, and are very accessible. You will need a collection of suitable trooper figures. It is common to recycle figures when a character leaves or dies, so 6-7 character 0 8 7 4 3 167 Introduction figures will do you fine to start with. Over time, a collection of 10-15 suitable figures will give you some options to pick from. You will need to be able to tell your figures apart, and the easier this is, the better. If you use figures from the same set, such as the many futuristic military miniature ranges available, try to use distinctive poses or vary the paint designs. Your figures should reflect roughly the type of weapons they are armed with, but as gear changes frequently, it is not reasonable to try and convert the figure’s weapons every time you get a new item… especially since characters can die rather easily! For the opposition, the more and stranger figures you have, the better. For the opposition forces you will need critters. There are a number of different enemy types, some of which are very weird! To get you started you will want a good collection of “bugs”.These can be humanoid, giant insects or anything similar. 15 figures is a good start but on a bad mission they can add up fast, so you can’t have too many. If you are on a budget, don’t be afraid to pick up some plastic insects or lizards from the local toy store. They are often perfectly sized for wargaming and will cost you very little.They can even be touched up with paint to look like suitable space monsters. It is common to “proxy” in a figure when you realize you need something that you don’t have.This means using a different figure to stand in. As long as you can play the game, you are doing fine.You can easily start with just a few figures and then expand as you go, watching your collection expand as you progress in the campaign. Main Characters and Grunts The characters you follow in the campaign game are the main characters.They earn Experience Points as the campaign goes on, and you determine their fates and stories. As you play battles, your main characters will be accompanied by supporting troops. These are not permanent characters, but are only with you for the purpose of that mission.These are only temporary characters in the story, and are referred to as grunts 168 Introduction (sometimes out loud, which may explain why they don’t stick around!) Ability Scores Each of your characters is rated in five ability scores,which you can record on a sheet of paper,or on the Crew Log at the back of these rules: • Reactions is used to determine when a character can act during the turn. • Speed is straightforward: How far you can move in tabletop inches. • Combat Skill is added to all attack dice rolls. • Toughness is the number that enemies need to roll above to damage you. • Savvy is added to all Problem Solving dice rolls. Enemy figures will not have Reaction and Savvy scores. Weapon Ratings Weapons are rated in three ways: • Range is the maximum attack range given in tabletop inches. • Shots is the number of attack dice you get to roll. • Damage is the number added to the damage roll. Weapons may have additional traits granting special rules, abilities, or exceptions. For more on weapons, see page 179. The Mission Structure During a Bug Hunt campaign, you follow a few main characters (typically 3 or 4) between missions. When assigned a mission, your main characters are supported by combat teams of trained troopers.These always count as grunts, and are only along for a single mission. During the mission, you attempt to accomplish military objectives while avoiding or defeating enemy forces you encounter. These enemies initially take the form of Contact markers, representing scanner blips. Note that there is no inherent limit to the number of foes you might face. If you stick around too long, you may well get overrun. Around the battlefield, you will also come across Tactical Locations that may be of help: Computer consoles allowing you to close down access tunnels, maps allowing faster access, colonial defense systems, and so forth. In space, nobody can hear your attack dice Being a procedurally generated game, there is no guarantee that a given mission will be tightly balanced and, given the nature of the genre, this is viewed as a strength rather than a flaw. Difficulty settings are provided in the Mission Set-up rules, if you wish to tailor the experience. Special Thanks A big thank you to everyone who helped out, contributed, or provided feedback over the years. This game is heavily inspired by the Space Crusade board game, the novels Armor and Forever War, the UFO / XCOM computer games and films like Screamers and Aliens (of course). Guilty Parties Please send all questions, corrections, and suggestions to: nordicweaselgames@icloud.com 169 Introduction In Bug Hunt, the player’s characters operate as part of a squad that includes main characters and grunts.This chapter will walk you through the process of creating the characters that you will be following in the campaign game. Main Characters In a typical campaign, you follow three main characters – the central characters of your campaign, who carry over from game to game, developing their skills along the way.You could increase the number of main characters to four or even five, if you wanted to have a slightly easier game, or if you wanted to play with a friend. Each main character begins with the following profile: REACTIONS 1 SPEED 4” COMBAT SKILL +0 TOUGHNESS 3 SAVVY +0 To generate a backstory for each of your main characters, use the three tables below to generate their origin, basic training and service history. • The Effect column will note bonuses to your profile. • The Advantages column may provide bonus Experience Points (meaning the character does not begin at 0 XP), Reputation, or Completed Missions for the character. It is not assumed that your main characters begin as rookies. • Reputation gains are added to a single pool for the squad, rather than being tracked individually.The squad begins the campaign with a bit of rep already, and, as a squad’s reputation precedes it, this is unaffected by the occasional departure and replacement of individual members. • Tally Completed Missions for each individual character.These are not transferrable. Note that the tables intentionally do not depend on each other. Feel free to concoct outrageous stories to explain the particular combination of traits your characters begin with. CHARACTER CREATION 170 Character Creation D100 ORIGIN EFFECT ADVANTAGES 01-09 Core systems world – +1 Reputation 10-15 Frontier colony +1 Combat Skill – 16-25 Mid-tech world – +2 XP 26-33 High-tech world +1 Savvy – 34-42 Trade hub – +2 XP 43-48 Struggling colony +1 Toughness – 49-56 Mega-city +1 Reactions – 57-61 Prison planet +1 Toughness, +1 Combat skill – 62-66 Hostile environment colony +1 Toughness – 67-75 Deep space fleet +1 Savvy +1 Completed Missions 76-83 Military outpost +1 Combat Skill +1 Reputation 84-91 Scientific outpost +1 Savvy – 92-00 Resource extraction colony +1 Toughness – D100 BASIC TRAINING EFFECT ADVANTAGES 01-15 Ground forces (Infantry) +1 Combat Skill, +1 Toughness 16-30 Ground forces (Scouts) +1 Reactions, +1 Speed 31-35 Ground forces (Cavalry) +1 Combat Skill, +1 Savvy +1 XP 36-45 Planetary militia +1 Speed +2 XP 46-50 Unity Special Project +1 Reactions +1 Reputation, +1 Completed Missions 51-65 Naval forces (Marines) +1 Combat Skill, +1 Reactions 66-80 Naval forces (Security) +1 Combat Skill, +1 Savvy 81-90 Naval forces (ship’s crew) +1 Savvy 91-00 Non-combatant branch +1 Savvy 171 character creation D100 SERVICE HISTORY EFFECT ADVANTAGES 01-10 Garrison or patrol duties – +1 XP 11-25 Patrol in low-intensity region – +1 XP 26-40 Patrol in fringe-space* – +1 XP 41-50 Police action* – +1 Completed Mission 51-60 Internal security operation – +1 Completed Mission 61-75 Anti-pirate operation* – +1 Completed Mission, +1 XP 76-90 Military action* +1 Reactions +1 Completed Mission, +1 Reputation 91-00 Extended campaign* – +2 Completed Missions, +1 Reputation, +2 XP Entries marked with a * are considered Combat Operations, albeit ones resolved away from the narrative of the campaign: Roll 2D6. For each 6, the character received a commendation for actions taken under fire, and add +1 XP and +1 Reputation. Standard Equipment Your characters will be given a standard equipment load that they always carry. Additional weaponry is issued on a per mission basis (see page 187).This standard load consists of: • Service Pistol • Trooper armor (allowing a saving throw on a roll of 5+) 172 Character Creation Combat Teams On most missions, your main characters are accompanied by grunts – additional support troops not permanently attached to you in the campaign.Think of them as the background extras in a film.When deployed, grunts are usually organized into combat teams of 2-4 troopers which must obey the following rules. A few grunts (e.g. the sniper) are elite enough to form a one-figure combat team of.They do not receive the team formation bonus below. Note: Combat Teams are only used for grunts, never for your main characters.Your main characters always move and fight individually. Reactions Treat each combat team as a single character when rolling for Reactions, and every figure in a given combat team acts in the same phase. Example: If you have 2 main characters and 3 combat teams, you roll 5 dice for Reactions, assigning one die to each combat team and main character. Team formation These soldiers are highly trained professionals (says the recruitment posters), able to operate independently. However, they perform best when deployed as a combat team. If a combat team is in formation, they receive a +1 bonus to their Reactions score. At the start of each round,determine whether combat teams are in formation: select a combat team member,and if every other member of that team is within 2” of the selected figure, the team is in formation.The selected figure can be changed each round as needs arise. Regiment Flavor table These random tables are here to provide additional flavor and details for the regiment your characters belong to.They do not affect game play but are highly recommended. If “[number]” is rolled,roll a D6,then roll again on the table.For example,a 74 = [number], so I roll a D6.The result is 4.My next roll is 42 on column one,17 on the column two.My regiment is the 4th Renegade Wolves. D100 REGIMENT TITLE PART 1 D100 REGIMENT TITLE PART 2 D100 UNIFORM COLOR 01-10 Flying 01-10 Crows 01-10 Black 11-20 Rolling 11-20 Wolves 11-20 Dark grey 21-30 Space 21-30 Cats 21-30 Pale grey 31-40 Striking 31-40 Sharks 31-40 Green 41-50 Renegade 41-50 Bears 41-50 Khaki 51-60 Big 51-60 Bulls 51-60 Red 61-70 [color] 61-70 Tigers 61-70 Urban camo 71-80 [number] 71-80 Snakes 71-80 Wilderness camo 81-90 Solar 81-90 Rats 81-90 Brown 91-00 Star 91-00 Coyotes 91-00 Metallic 173 character creation Terrain Types This section helps define how different types of terrain function in the game. Simply read through this section and assign each of your terrain pieces to the appropriate categories. Feel free to create unusual or imaginative terrain types for your specific gaming situation, reflecting the unusual or unique environments of alien worlds, unfamiliar space stations, and mysterious structures. Linear Any wide feature that a miniature cannot generally be placed on top of. Examples: hedgerows, walls, sandbag barricades, and similar. Area Features that cover a space on the table and can have miniatures placed within them. Area features may be designated as Difficult. Examples: forest, bushes, and rubble. Field Similar to an Area feature, but ground level. Field features may be designated as Difficult or Impassable. Examples: mud, water, or lava pools. Individual A single piece of terrain that a figure cannot climb. Examples: barrels, individual trees, and sign posts. Block A terrain piece that can be climbed or otherwise interacted with, but which figures cannot enter. Examples: boulders, sealed shipping containers, or locked buildings. Interior An enclosed terrain piece that figures can enter. Examples: unsecured buildings, tunnels, and caves. Line of Sight When dealing with Block and Individual features, use what is called “true Line of Sight”: Lean down and see if the target is visible from a model’s eye view. If a Line of Sight is available, you need to determine if it is stopped. Lines of Sight are stopped in the following instances: • 3” after crossing the boundary of an Area feature MAIN RULES Interaction with Terrain Block and Linear features can be climbed. Area and Field features can be entered. The Movement rules chapter discusses how this influences movement (see page 176). 174 MAIN RULES • 3” after crossing a Linear, Individual or Block feature • 3” into an Area feature, even if the boundary was not crossed. • If it crosses or is partially obscured by another figure Note: Ignore terrain features within 1” of the firer for the purposes of 1 and 2 above. Example: A figure within 1” of a wall could fire across it with no restriction (as features within 1” are ignored).A figure several inches from the wall could only fire across it, if the intended target is within 3” of the crossing point. Practically this means when fighting across Linear obstacles, either firer or target needs to be within 3” of the obstacle. Cover A figure is considered to be in Cover for combat purposes if any of the following are true: • Line of Sight crossed any terrain feature • Positioned within an Area feature • In contact with the corner of Block terrain As we assume some mobility and survival instinct on behalf of our characters, a figure meeting these conditions is in Cover, even if the miniature figure can otherwise be seen completely clearly. 175 MAIN RULES Movement When moving, a figure may move up to their Speed in tabletop inches. Opening doors costs 1” of movement. Climbing through a window or hole costs 2”. Figures moving on the ground cannot move directly through another figure at any time. Difficult terrain Terrain features do not typically reduce movement speed, but Difficult terrain will consume an additional 1” of movement allowance for every full 2” moved in it. However, enemies are not affected by Difficult terrain and move at full speed through such features. Difficult terrain includes forest, swamp, rubble, and sand. Combat teams Figures in Combat Teams do not have to move together.They may voluntarily break formation and each figure may use different movement options (such as Dashing, see below). Dash Characters that do not intend to fire can Dash, allowing them to move an additional 2”. Enemies will Dash 3” but will Dash only if: • the additional movement will bring them in contact with a trooper, OR • they are in the open and have Line of Sight to a trooper. Brawling If a figure moves into contact with an opposing figure, they cease moving immediately, and a Brawl must be resolved. Troopers cannot enter a Brawl by Dashing, while enemies can. A trooper that enters a Brawl on their action cannot fire a weapon, but a trooper that is engaged in a Brawl before they have acted could still fire normally. See page 177 for rules on Brawling. Moving up and down Vertical obstacles can be traversed by simply paying the cost in inches. For example, crossing a 2” tall wall uses 2” of movement allowance. Figures cannot end a move part-way up a surface or wall. A descent equal to the height of the figure or less can be performed for free.Any longer drop requires the character to either climb down or Jump. Jumping does not require any available movement, meaning a character can move to an edge and jump down, but if the distance exceeds the height of the figure their turn comes to an end.Jumping down 3” or further inflicts a Damage 0 hit.Troopers may not jump down from a height exceeding 6”. Characters can leap over a gap up to 2” wide, counting it as part of their standard movement. Enemy Movement As noted above, Enemies can Dash 3” under certain conditions, and are unaffected by Difficult terrain.Additionally: • Enemy figures can leap over gaps up to 3” wide, simply counting the gap as normal movement. • Enemy figures can drop down from any distance up to 8” without damage. If the drop is more than 3”, the enemy must halt movement for the round, otherwise it may continue moving after the drop. 176 MAIN RULES Combat A trooper may fire any single weapon they are carrying as a Combat Action. Unless within 3” of a visible opponent, you may fire at any visible target. If a figure intends to attack and has enemies within 3”, it must target an enemy within that range. When a figure uses a weapon with multiple shots, they may resolve them one at a time and, if the target is destroyed, select another target within 3” of the original for subsequent shots. When firing, roll D6, adding the Combat Skill of the firer.The target number to Hit is: • Within 6” and in the open 3+ • Within weapon range and in the open 5+ • Within weapon range and in cover 6+ If the modified score is equal to or above the target number, the shot hits. Missed shots have no effect. Rapid Fire Aliens tend to arrive in swarms that make tempting targets. Every natural 6 on the firing dice allows an additional shot to be taken against the same target or another figure within 2”.You may forego these extra shots, for example if attempting to avoid the risk of a malfunction. Malfunctions When firing, keep a note of how many natural 1s are rolled, counting both the initial firing dice and any Rapid Fire dice gained. Any weapon that rolls two or more natural 1s during a single round has malfunctioned, and is temporarily unusable. Attempting to restore the weapon to use requires spending a Combat Action, and making a successful 1D6+Savvy check, scoring 7+. Area Weapons Weapons with the Area trait are not subject to the Rapid Fire and Malfunction rules. Instead, when firing an Area weapon, roll a separately colored D6 at the same time. If this die scores a 1, the weapon is out of ammunition, and cannot be used for the remainder of the battle. Brawling Characters in physical (base) contact with each other will fight in a Brawl rather than firing. To make an attack during Brawling, troopers roll 1D6+Combat Skill. Characters armed for close quarter fighting receive a bonus on top of this: • +2 if carrying a Melee weapon • +1 if carrying a Pistol. Only one weapon bonus can be counted. Enemies roll 1D6+Combat Skill, with no other modifiers. • The lower total suffers a Hit (see Resolving Hits, p.178). • On a draw, both characters take a Hit. • If an enemy rolls a natural 1, it takes a Hit. If it survives, it will then immediately roll again. Brawling Damage Resolve Hits using the highest Damage value of any Melee or Pistol weapon carried. Characters with no suitable weapon strike with Damage 0. Enemies strike with the Damage rating indicated in their profile. Moving after Brawling A character that eliminates their opponent may move 2” in any direction, but cannot enter a 177 MAIN RULES new Brawl.This move is taken immediately, even during the opponents’ turn. Enemies that win a Brawl must always move directly towards the nearest visible opponent, if any. If no enemies are visible, they will move into the position occupied by the defeated trooper. Resolving Hits Saving throws Some characters, including your troopers, have armor or protective devices that grant a saving throw.This is expressed as giving a save on a particular dice range, such as 4-6, 5-6, etc. When the figure is hit, roll 1D6; a result within this range indicates that they shrug off the hit, are not Stunned but are knocked back 1”. Note that some attacks may ignore armor. Unless the rules state this, all damaging Hits on troopers receive a saving throw. Some enemy types may also receive saving throws, which work in the same manner. If a character is hit and fails their saving throw (if one is permitted), regardless of the source of the hit, roll 1D6 and add the Damage rating of the attack or event. • If the result exceeds Toughness, the character becomes a casualty and is removed from play. • If the result is equal to Toughness, the character is knocked back 1” and Wounded. • If the result is below Toughness the character is knocked back 1” and Stunned. Wounded A Wounded trooper is at a -1 penalty to Brawling attack rolls, and can no longer make Dash moves.The Wounded status remains for the rest of the mission. If Wounded a second time in the mission, the trooper is removed as a casualty. Wounded enemies fall to the ground, and can no longer move. However, if a trooper moves within 1”, place the enemy in contact with them, and the enemy will immediately attack them in Brawling combat.A second Wound will kill the enemy. Stunned Each time a figure is Stunned, place a suitable marker.When the figure is selected for activation, it may move OR carry out an Action (but not both), if it is a trooper.An enemy must remain in place, unable to act. In both cases, remove 1 Stun marker from the figure. If they return to 0 Stun markers, they are no longer Stunned. If a figure accumulates 3 Stun markers, it is knocked out and removed from play. If a Stunned figure is engaged in a Brawl, they will fight at a -1 penalty, but may remove 1 Stun marker if they survive the Brawl. Trooper Armor All figures noted as wearing trooper armor receive a saving throw on 5-6. 178 MAIN RULES Weapons and gear The following are typical weapons and gear that your characters may find themselves armed with. WEAPON RANGE SHOTS DAMAGE NOTES Service pistol 14” 1 0 Pistol Hand cannon 8” 1 1 Pistol Carbine 18” 1 0 – Combat rifle 26” 1 0 – Shot gun 12” 2 1 Focused Sniper rifle 40” 1 1 Aimed Light machine gun 36” 3 1 Heavy Incinerator 8” 3 1 Focused,Area Hyper blaster 24” 3 1 Overheat Plasma rifle 20” 2 1 Focused, Piercing Boarding sword Brawl – 0 Melee Power claw Brawl – 1 Melee Flash grenade 6” – – Stun Frag grenade 6” 2 0 Area Mounted launcher 18” – – Launcher Weapons may have the following traits: • Pistols grant +1 to Brawling rolls. • Focused weapons must direct all shots against a single target. • Aimed weapons grant +1 Hit bonus if the firer does not move. • Heavy weapons suffer -1 to hit when moving. • Area weapons resolve their Shots against the target (which may be an empty point on the table).Then regardless of effects, roll 1D6 for every figure within 2”. On a 4+, they are hit. • Melee weapons grant +2 to Brawling rolls. • Stun weapons will Stun any target within 2” of the target point on a 3+ roll. Roll for each. • Launchers may fire any grenade type carried up to the range indicated. • Piercing weapons ignore saving throws. • Overheat causes the weapon to malfunction if all three firing dice score the same number. If less than three firing dice are rolled, no chance of malfunction exists. Note that Stun and Area weapons are targeted at any point in sight, not against a specific target figure.The “Shots” on the weapons profile only applies to the initial target, if any. 179 MAIN RULES Unusual Situations This section covers various unusual situations that can occur during the game. In most cases you can resolve such cases yourself, but if you prefer a bit of guidance, we’re here to help. Entering a Brawl with multiple opponents In rare cases, it is possible for a moving character to enter a Brawl with two opponents at the same time, typically if they are very close together. If so, select which opponent you fight at random. Even if you win, expect no moment to breath; as soon as you down the first enemy, the second is on you: fight the other opponent immediately, adding +1 to their Combat Skill. Crashing into things Some rules can force a character to move or be moved randomly. Random moves are not reduced by Difficult terrain. If the character moves into a Linear, Block, or Individual terrain feature, the character ceases moving. If more than 1” remained of the random move distance, they become Stunned. If an enemy and trooper are moved randomly into contact with each other, a Brawl is resolved immediately. Both combatants count as having Combat Skill +0, ignoring all modifiers. Equal distance When determining opponent actions, you may run into multiple options if locations or targets are equal in value, distance, or some other factor. If so, roll a D6, with 1-3 representing one possibility and 4-6 representing the other. Cover is made of people! If a Line of Sight is partially obscured by another trooper, you may NOT fire.Also, troopers may not fire Area weapons in such a way that the attack would threaten other troopers. If a desired target is partially obscured by another enemy, you may abandon the shot in favor of a different target or choose to fire at the obscuring figure instead. Timing questions If you are not sure how to resolve a complex situation where multiple things are happening all at once, work through it one step at a time, resolving each game mechanic as it is invoked. Nordic Weasel games generally run on the basis that things resolve as they occur, with no “queuing up” or similar systems, and Bug Hunt is no exception to this. Positioning For the purpose of resolving any game mechanic, all figures are assumed to occupy the exact position they are currently occupying on the gaming table. Figures are never abstracted to be generally in an area or “moving through” an area. 180 MAIN RULES Movie Magic If you prefer a more cinematic game, you can use the rules in this chapter. Each of the listed options below can be employed once in your campaign.We recommend that you write them on index cards and tear the cards up as you use them. Each can be narrated in any manner that fits the table and situation: For example, a barricade might be raising an interior blast door, or your troopers might us it to rig up a laser fence. Barricade Use at the beginning or end of any round. Place a barricade anywhere on the table. It must be a straight line and no wider than 3”.The barricade becomes impassable to all movement (troopers, enemies, and Contact markers) for the rest of the battle. Double-Up Use when selecting a character to act. The character receives an Incinerator and may fire either that or their regular weapon during any given battle round.The Incinerator is immune to malfunction. Escape Use after a battle. Any characters that moved across a battlefield edge do not have to roll on the Lost Marine table. Evac Use after failing a roll for evac during a mission. Evac automatically arrives next round with no roll required. Extra Support Use when rolling up Support for the mission. The first Support option you request does not require a die roll. Lucky Find Use when selecting a character to act. Select any weapon from the Weapons table (see p.179) and give it to the active character or an ally within 4”.The new weapon is not subject to malfunctions, but cannot be retained after the mission. Reinforcements Use at the beginning or end of any round. Select any one option from the mission support list (see pp.188-9).The indicated troops are placed at the center of any battlefield edge of your choice, and will participate in the battle normally. No die roll is required for their arrival. Remove Contact Use at the beginning or end of any round. Select a Contact marker anywhere on the table and remove it from play. Survived Use after rolling for character injuries. A character of your choice may ignore the effects of an injury roll. You want some too? Use when selecting a character to act. The selected trooper may move normally, and then fire three times, with no chance of weapon malfunction. 181 MAIN RULES Bug Hunt is played in a series of campaign turns. Each of these may represent a few days, a few weeks, or even several months.Think of a campaign turn as an episode in a television show, framing a particular story or adventure. Each campaign turn you will be given a mission, which is resolved on the gaming table, as well as completing various other activities beyond the battlefield. To play a campaign turn, complete the following stages in order: 1. Special Assignments, below. 2. Fight a tabletop battle (see Mission Generation, page 184, then The Battle Round, page 38). 3. Post-battle (see page 202). CAMPAIGN TURN 182 Campaign Turn Special Assignments Troopers do not spend all their time on missions, but can spend valuable time honing their skills in readiness.You may nominate any of your characters for Special Assignments, unless they are in Sick Bay. Special Assignments typically involve additional training, but can also provide opportunities. For each eligible character, select an assignment, and roll 2D6 on the table below to see whether they can obtain approval to undertake it. Note that some assignments have additional requirements that must be met. Failure means you were not accepted onto this (or any other) assignment this turn, but you may try again in a future campaign turn.A character can only complete a given assignment once in their career. For each Special Assignment undertaken,they receive a training award and,where indicated on the table,bonus XP and Reputation (“Rep.”). In the unlikely event that a character has successfully completed every possible Assignment below, they spend this part of the campaign turn playing cards in barracks. ASSIGNMENT DICE ROLL & REQUIREMENTS TRAINING AWARDS BONUS XP REP. Marksman training Roll 9+ Combat Skill +1 if currently lower than 2. +1 – Leadership training Roll 9+ May take Officer Training Course during a later turn +2 – Physical training Roll 8+ Speed +1 if currently lower than 6 +1 – Commando course Roll 10+ and Reactions or Combat Skill of 2+ Reactions +1 if currently lower than 3, Combat Skill +1 if currently lower than 2 +2 – Technical training Roll 9+ Savvy +1 if currently lower than 2 +1 – Public relations duties Roll 9+ and 4 completed Missions – +1 +1 Instructor 10+ and 4 completed Missions – +2 +1 Cross-training 8+ – +3 – Special assault course 10+ Combat Skill +1 if currently lower than 2 +1 – Survival course 8+ Toughness +1 if currently lower than 4, Speed +1 if currently lower than 5 +1 – Harsh environment course 8+ Savvy +1 if currently lower than 2 +1 – Officer training course 11+ and Leadership Training Reactions +1 if currently lower than 2 +1 183 Campaign Turn HQ has found the next target location and it is time to get to the drop ship.Your troopers laugh that no doubt this time the intel team got it right. Missions are resolved on the tabletop using miniature figures.You may use any of your characters that are not currently in sick bay due to injuries. Mission Set-up To set up a Mission’s encounter, follow the steps below: 1. Set up battle area 2. Determine and place Objectives 3. Select mission difficulty 4. Determine Priority 5. Determine Spawn Rating 6. Select load-out 7. Determine force strength 8. Place Signals,Tactical Locations, and initial Contacts 9. Set up your troops Step 1. Set up battle area The area you are going to play in can be set up in any manner you like. It is customary for bug hunting missions to take place inside spaceships, colony installations, and similar, and if you have access to floor plans (such as modular tiles or board game floors), you can utilize these for such a battle. Players with 15mm scale figures can easily take advantage of floor plans intended for 25/28mm figures. However, the enemy hordes certainly don’t keep to building interiors, and missions can take place in colonies, urban areas, or even complete wilderness.A combat sweep through a jungle can have a great movie atmosphere, for example. A typical (3x3 feet) battlefield should contain 10 decent-size terrain features, such as large rocks, a collection of smaller crates, a small structure, a forested area, or similar. Distribute these fairly evenly, then add 5-10 small individual features (rocks, crates, single trees, etc.) in any gaps. Don’t be afraid to add some strange-looking plants and rock formations: Aquarium decorations are great for providing a fun alien world feel. MISSION GENERATION 184 Mission Generation Step 2. Determine and place Objectives Place 6 dice around the table, with numbers 1 through 6 showing.The dice should be placed at locations that seem significant to your gaming table, such as rooms, cross-roads, raised ground, or similar. Space the dice roughly evenly across your gaming table and avoid placing them within 6” of the battlefield edges if at all possible. Roll three D6 and remove any of the table dice that do not match one of the numbers you rolled.The remaining dice become your Objectives.You can replace these dice with suitable markers or an identifiable piece of scatter terrain to prevent it being accidentally picked up during the game. If two of the D6s rolled the same number, the Objective with that number becomes a Vital Objective. If all three rolled the same number, the one remaining die becomes a Critical Objective. To determine the nature of each Objective, roll a D6 on the table below.You may identify a given Objective marker before rolling, or determine the results first and assign the results to the Objective markers where they make the most sense. During the mission, count how many Objectives were completed. Vital Objectives count as 2 when completed, while Critical Objectives count as 3. 1D6 OBJECTIVE ACHIEVED WHEN 1 Patrol At the end of each battle round, if a trooper is within 6”, roll 1D6. On a 4+, the Objective becomes completed. 2 Scout This Objective is completed at the end of the round during which a trooper moved to make contact with the marker. 3 Secure This Objective is completed if at the end of a round, a trooper is within 6” and no enemies are within 6”. 4 Retrieve A trooper moving into contact and spending a Combat Action can pick up the package. If the figure becomes a casualty, the package is dropped. To complete the Objective, you must hold the package when Evac’ing. 5 Beacon Move a trooper into contact with the marker to complete this Objective, once all Hack, Secure, and Scout Objectives have been completed. 6 Hack A trooper must move into contact and spend a Combat Action. Roll 1D6+Savvy and score a 6+ to complete the Objective. Vital and Critical Objectives Objectives are all important (according to the colonel), but some are more important to the overall war efforts. Objectives may be rated as Vital or even Critical if they are especially valuable.This will affect your success rate in the mission, so think carefully before giving up on one. 185 Mission generation Step 3. Select mission difficulty You may select one of five difficulty settings for the mission. Note that these do not affect character progression but may be used to regulate the brutality of the game experience. This is useful when introducing the game to new players, or if you want the struggle of your life against impossible odds. DIFFICULTY INITIAL CONTACT MARKERS ENCOUNTER MODIFIER I’m Too Pretty to Die Adjust by -1 Adjust by -1 Gain +2 Support points (see Step 7, page 187) Hey, Not Too Crazy Adjust by -1 No adjustment – Mess Me Up No adjustment No adjustment – Mega-violence Adjust by +1 Adjust by +1 – Living Nightmare Adjust by +1 Adjust by +1 At the end of each battle round, if there are less than 3 Contact markers on the table, place 1 new Contact marker at the center of a random battlefield edge. 186 Mission Generation Step 4. Determine Priority Not every mission is equally important to those in authority. Sometimes it’s just a recon sweep in a low-threat sector, sometimes it’s the heart of the storm. Roll two D6s, and pick the lower result: This is your Priority Rating.The higher it is, the more resistance you will encounter, and the worse things will be. If a Vital Objective is on the table, increase Priority by +1. If a Critical Objective is on the table, increase Priority by +2. If desired, you can call on your Reputation to be assigned a higher or lower Priority mission. You may spend up to 2 points of Reputation, with each point raising or lowering the Priority Rating by 1. Regardless of points spent or modifiers, Priority cannot be reduced below 1 or raised above 6. Step 5. Determine Spawn rating The Spawn Rating adds to the inflow of enemy reinforcements. It is equal to the Priority Rating minus 1, but the final score cannot exceed 3. Examples: A Priority Rating of 1 would result in a Spawn Rating of 0, while a Priority Rating of 6 would result in a Spawn Rating of 3. Step 6. Select loadout Each main character may select to carry their choice of Combat Rifle, Shotgun, or Boarding Sword for the duration of the mission. Additionally, one main character may opt to swap the Service Pistol from their standard equipment (see p.172) for a Hand Cannon for the duration of the mission. Step 7. Determine force strength In addition to your main characters, you always receive one Fire Team of soldiers (grunts identical to the “Fire Team” Support entry below). You receive Support points equal to the Priority of the mission. Add +2 if you have selected the I’m too pretty to die difficulty setting. If desired, 1 point of Reputation may be spent to gain +1 Support. Each point grants one roll against a support type of your choosing on the Support table below. Roll 2D6, with a result equal to or above the target number granting you the troops requested.A score below the target means that type of Support is unavailable, and the point is lost. Each Support choice can only be requested once before a particular mission, but you may roll for each request and see if you get it, before deciding what to roll for next. Campaign escalation option (continued) If using the Campaign escalation option above, the Spawn Ratings would be: 0 – 0 – 1 – 1 – 2 – 3 – 3 – 3 Campaign escalation option You may prefer to play a campaign that slowly escalates in Priority.If so instead of rolling,you will use the following Priority Ratings in order as you play missions: 1 – 1 – 2 – 2 – 3 – 4 – 5 – 6 187 Mission generation SUPPORT TARGET (2D6) CONTENTS ABILITY SCORES NOTES Fire team 7+ 4-figure team with Combat Rifles Reactions 1 Speed 4” Combat Skill +0 Toughness 4 Savvy +0 Trooper armor A standard trooper fire team. Sarge 5+ 1 figure with Shotgun and Boarding Sword OR Service Pistol and Power Claw Reactions 2 Speed 4” Combat Skill +1 Toughness 5 Savvy +0 Trooper armor A battle-hardened veteran who have seen it all and only wants to know how to find more bugs to kill. Sharp shooter 6+ 1 figure with Sniper Rifle Reactions 2 Speed 4” Combat Skill +1 Toughness 4 Savvy +0 Trooper armor A lone operative with a high-powered sniper rifle. Recon patrol 6+ 2-figure team with Carbines Reactions 3 Speed 6” Combat Skill +0 Toughness 4 Savvy +0 – Recon troopers are outfitted to move quickly and quietly. Colonial militia 5+ 5-figure team with Carbines Reactions 1 Speed 4” Combat Skill +0 Toughness 3 Savvy +0 – Enthusiastic members of the nearest colony defense forces. Scientific survey team 6+ 4-figure team with no weapons Reactions 1 Speed 4” Combat Skill +0 Toughness 3 Savvy +3 If a scientist reaches the center of the table and spends one entire round there, count this as completing one Objective. This is only achievable once per mission. HQ says we need to measure the ambient Z-59 radiation in order to… I don’t know, it’s important alright? 188 Mission Generation SUPPORT TARGET (2D6) CONTENTS ABILITY SCORES NOTES Weapons support 4+ – – Outfit any one figure with your choice of Light Machine Gun, Incinerator, Power Claw, Hyper Blaster or Plasma Rifle. Additional armaments have been approved for allocation. Grenades 4+ – – Outfit four figures of choice with Frag or Flash grenades OR outfit one figure of choice with a Mounted Launcher and either Frag or Flash grenades Grenades make bugs explode. More grenades makes more bugs explode. Intel report 7+ – – +1 bonus to activate Tactical Locations for entire mission While the intel nerds don’t always get it right, it can’t hurt to read their reports. Soulless Recon Team 8+ 2-figure team. 1 Carbine and 1 Sniper Rifle. Reactions 3 Speed 6” Combat Skill +1 Toughness 5 Savvy +1 Protective shell equal to Trooper Armor. Robotic entities linked into a species-wide network. Somewhat unsettling but dedicated allies. K’Erin assault marine Team 8+ 4-figure team with Carbines and Boarding Swords Reactions 1 Speed 4” Combat Skill +0 Toughness 4 Savvy +0 Trooper Armor. Roll twice and pick the best die when Brawling. War-like humanoids eager for an honorable fight. Being knee-deep in alien gore seems to make them oddly content with life. Precursor explorer 8+ 1-figure with Service Pistol and Boarding Sword Reactions 3 Speed 6” Combat Skill +0 Toughness 3 Savvy +0 You may re-roll one initiative die each round. Refined travelers with a mystical outlook on the galaxy.They are often pursuing an abstract higher purpose but tend to be allies of Unity more often than not. 189 Mission generation Step 8. Place Tactical Locations and Initial Contacts Tactical Locations: You will need markers to indicate Tactical Locations (see page 191) and Signals (if this rule is used – see page 208), and they should be readily distinct from the markers used for Objectives. If you are not using the Signals rule, 6 Tactical Locations are placed on the battlefield. If Signals are used, place 1D6 Signals, then place Tactical Locations until the total number of Signals and Tactical Locations adds up to 6. For example, if placing 4 Signals, you would then place 2 Tactical Locations. Tactical Locations and Signals should be spread as evenly as possible around the battlefield, and if possible should be placed at least 2” from any Objective markers. Signals must be placed in or adjacent to a terrain feature. Contacts: Place a Contact marker on each Objective (but not on Tactical Locations). Once this is done, place one additional Contact marker in the center of the table. Add 1 extra Contact marker in the same location if you have selected the Mega- violence or Living nightmare difficulty settings. Do not place this extra marker if you have selected the I’m too pretty to die or Hey, not too crazy difficulty settings. If you have opted for Mess me up, no adjustments are made. Step 9. Set up your troops Your force is assumed to land by drop ship just outside the battlefield. Randomly determine one of the battlefield edges, and set up anywhere on the battlefield within 3” of that edge, with your forces as compact or spread out along the edge as you like. Any Objectives must be at least 12” from your initial deployments. If they would be closer, move them directly away towards the opposite battlefield edge (Intel clearly misjudged the terrain). 190 Mission Generation Tactical Locations During the mission, you will encounter Tactical Locations.These represent sites and situations of potential value to your force: Computer consoles, pathways that can be sealed off, useful infrastructure, adaptable equipment, and so forth. By investigating and interacting with these locations, you can gain an advantage against the alien hordes. Tactical Locations are marked on the battlefield with any suitable marker (we suggest a 0.5” x 0.5” square). Investigating To investigate a Tactical Location, a figure must finish a move within 3” of the marker without firing a weapon or engaging in a Brawl. You can then roll on the following table to determine the exact nature of the location. Any figure that is within 3” and is not firing or engaging in a Brawl (including the figure that just investigated the Location) may attempt to activate it.A further die roll is required to activate and gain the tactical benefits, as described below. D6 TACTICAL ADVANTAGE EFFECTS 1 Distract When activated, all enemies within 18” are Distracted and cannot act during the next Enemy Action phase. Note that Contact markers are unaffected, but if a Contact marker is revealed within range, the newly placed enemies will be affected immediately. 2-3 Block The area within 2” of the marker becomes Impassable to Enemies or Contact markers, but can be crossed without any hindrance by player figures.At the end of each round including the current, roll a D6: On a 6, the area will become passable again at the end of the following round. 4-5 Neutralize Remove any one Contact marker of your choice. 6 Delay For the rest of the current round and all of the two following rounds, no new Contact markers can be added to the battlefield. Simply ignore any rule that would require such a placement. To activate the Tactical Location, roll 1D6+Savvy, scoring a 5+. Mark the location in some way if his roll fails.A second failure to activate the same Location means the functionality of the location has been compromised in some way, and its Tactical Advantage remains unavailable for the remainder of the game. Enemies and Tactical Locations Until it has been activated, a Tactical Location has no effect on enemy figures.They may move over the marker, and will not factor it into their decision making process at all. Once it is activated, it has the normal effects described in the table above. 191 Mission generation Contacts Contact markers represent sounds, footprints, and the shrill “bleep bleep” of the team’s motion trackers as hostile lifeforms are closing in. You will need some sort of markers or tokens to use as Contact markers during play. Board game tokens can be adapted with ease, or you may take any generic “alien” figure and paint it in a pale grey. While Contact markers are placed during the Mission Generation rules (see p.184), their function in the game is discussed below, as they are principally connected to the Movement rules. Moving Contact Markers All Contact markers are moved during the Enemy Action phase, but after all enemy figures have moved. Begin with the Contact marker nearest to a player figure (in absolute terms, ignoring terrain, walls, and similar), then the next nearest, etc. To move a Contact marker, roll two D6 in separate colors.The darker color represents Aggression while the lighter color represents Chance. • If the Chance die is higher, move the marker that many inches in a random direction. • If the Aggression die is higher, move the marker that many inches towards the nearest player figure. • If the dice are equal, the Contact marker remains in place, and a new Contact marker is placed on top of it. From the next round onwards, they will each move separately. A Contact marker will move around or through terrain features as required.Their movement is never reduced due to difficult ground. If it would move off the battlefield edge, it will halt in place upon reaching the edge. Detecting Contact Markers Check for Detection of Contact markers: • At the end of each marker’s move (and only at the end, never during). • Whenever a player figure finishes the Movement portion of its action (checking all Contact markers for Detection). • Immediately when a new Contact marker is placed. Surprise! Detection is based on proximity: • Markers in sight and not in cover are Detected within 6”. • Markers in cover or out of sight are Detected within 3”. Note that Line of Sight is not required to Detect, as troops carry close range detection devices (and in any event, most alien life forms make scary hissing sounds). Upon Detection, Immediately roll 1D6 on the Contact table below.All results are applied before continuing with the game. If a Marker is Detected at the end of a player figure’s move, they may then fire on any revealed enemies, if possible. Note that Contact markers themselves cannot be fired upon. 192 Mission Generation D6 CONTACT EFFECT 1 Stay frosty Remove the marker. If this leaves less than 3 markers on the table, put a new marker on the battlefield edge point furthest from the spotter. 2 We got movement all over the place Move the marker 1D6” directly away from the spotter, then place a new Contact marker on the nearest battlefield edge point to the spotter. 3-6 CONTACT! The marker is replaced with enemy figures. All enemies encountered during a particular mission will be of the same type. If you have not yet determined the type, roll on the table in the Mission Generation chapter (see p.184).This table should also be used to determine numbers. If you have encountered this enemy type before in the campaign, determine the variant you have encountered this time. See page 196. If this is the third or later mission of the campaign, you will need to check if a pack leader is present. See page 197. Place all enemy figures within 1” of the marker.They do not perform any actions this round. “Beep... Sir?” At the start of each round from Round 2 onwards, roll D6s equal to the Priority of the mission (from 1 to 6, typically 2-3; See Determine Priority, page 187). If any of the dice roll a 6, place one new Contact marker on the table by rolling a random direction die in the center of the table.The marker is placed at the point of a battlefield edge indicated by the die. Check for Detection after placing the marker. If the marker is Detected, all figures within 12” may fire upon the revealed enemies immediately as a bonus action.This bonus shot does not prevent the figures from acting normally during the round, and only applies to markers placed under this rule. They’re inside the perimeter! On the Living Nightmare difficulty setting (see page 26), place a Contact marker for each 6 rolled instead. Example: My mission is Priority 3 and I roll a 2, 6, 6 on the dice. I place one new Contact marker at a random battlefield edge. If I was playing on the Living Nightmare setting, I would place two instead. 193 Mission generation Enemy table When you first reveal a Contact marker during a mission, roll on the table below to determine the enemy type.This will also give you the number encountered per Contact marker and their profiles. The enemy types have been left fairly vague so that you can fit your own miniatures collection to them as best as possible. Feel free to invent your own backstory about what these creatures are, and don’t feel too hung up on the names if you have something in your collection that would really fit a particular monster profile. The Converted, Horde, and Swarm enemies originate in the Unified Space setting.The Converted are corpses re-animated through cybernetics for use as assault troops, the Horde rely on genetic manipulation to create monstrosities for war, and the Swarm are your typical fast, homicidal alien creatures. The Numbers column gives the dice roll to be made whenever a Contact marker is revealed as Enemies. Note that on the I’m too pretty to die difficulty setting, the number is reduced by 1. On the Mega-violence and Living Nightmare difficulty settings, the number is increased by 1. The table gives the Speed, Combat Skill, and Toughness of the enemies in the appropriate columns.The Damage column is used when enemies inflict a hit on a trooper. D100 ENEMY NUMBERS SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGHNESS DAMAGE 01-08 Vent-crawlers 1D3+2 6” 1 4 2 When firing at Vent-crawlers within or directly behind cover, do not add Combat Skill. 09-13 Acid blobs 1D6 3” 0 5 3 When an Acid Blob is killed, roll 1D6 immediately. On a 1 or 2, place new Blobs equal to the die roll randomly 2” from the slain Blob. 14-19 Face-rippers 1D3+2 5” 1 5 2 Trooper armor only saves on a roll of a 6. 20-26 Slithering horrors 1D6+1 4” 1 4 2 Troopers with melee weapons can only claim a +1 bonus to Brawling rolls. 27-33 Tentacle creepers 1D3+1 3” 3 4 1 Creepers receive a 5+ saving throw, except when struck by an Area weapon. 34-41 Shambling reanimations 1D6+2 3” 0 4 1 Any grunt defeated is immediately replaced by another Reanimation figure. 42-47 Razor lizards 1D6+1 6” 1 3 2 Defeated troopers who roll for post-battle injuries must add 1 campaign turn to all recovery times.This does not apply to rolls on the Lost Marine column of the Injury table. 48-51 Berserk robots 1D3+1 4” 2 5 2 5+ saving throw against all sources of damage. 194 Mission Generation D100 ENEMY NUMBERS SPEED COMBAT SKILL TOUGHNESS DAMAGE 52-56 Converted assault team 1D6+1 4” 1 4 2 5+ saving throw against ranged attacks. 57-62 Dimensional distorts 1D6+1 5” 2 5 2 At the end of each round, select a random Distort figure on the battlefield and move it to the center of the battlefield. 63-69 The Swarm 1D3+1 6” 2 4 3 Attacks ignore trooper saving throws. 70-77 Horde invasion force 2D3+1 4” 1 3 1 At the end of each round, if any Horde figures are on the table, 1 additional figure is placed at the center of a random battlefield edge. 78-82 Converted infiltration team 1D6+1 5” 1 4 2 Each time a group is revealed, one of the figures is instead set up on the closest Objective. 83-87 Shatter-forms 1D6+1 4” 1 4 3 When killed, all figures within 2” take a Damage 0 hit (including other Shatter-forms). 88-94 Strangle worms 1D6+4 4” 0 3 1 At the end of each round, roll 1D6 for every Worm on the table. On a 6, another Worm is placed adjacent to it. 95-00 Gripper weeds 1D6+1 4” 1 4 1 Troopers within 2” of a Gripper Weed cannot move, but may fire normally. 195 Mission generation Enemy Variants If you have encountered a particular enemy type previously in your campaign, all future encounters will be with a variant strain.The first time your team spots an enemy (not just a Contact marker) during a mission, roll D6 and consult the table below.All enemies encountered during a mission will be the same variant, and variant types are generated new each mission. D6 SUB-TYPE EFFECTS 1 Spitters Any enemy that ends a move within 6” and sight of a trooper will make a ranged attack against the closest trooper. Roll 1D6 per attack with any 6 hitting (regardless of Combat Skill, Cover, or other factors). Hits are resolved with Damage 1.Armor applies normally. 2 Ambushers When a Contact marker is revealed, the figures are placed within or behind the closest terrain feature within 4” of the marker, though they cannot be placed in base contact with a trooper. If no location is possible, they deploy as normal. 3 Toughs The enemies receive a 5+ saving throw against Area weapons. If they already have an existing save, they are combined into a single 4+ saving throw. 4 Swarmers When each Contact is revealed, one additional enemy is placed on the table. 5 Runners Increase movement speed by +1”. 6 Screamers These variants summon the rest of their kind. At the end of each Enemy Action phase, roll D10. If it is equal to or below the number of enemies currently on the table, one additional enemy is placed in the exact center of the battlefield. It cannot act in the round it was placed. 196 Mission Generation Pack Leaders Unless this is one of the first two missions of the campaign,there is a chance the enemies revealed will be accompanied by a pack leader. Roll three D12. If any of the dice roll equal or below the number of enemies revealed by the marker, a single pack leader is present. Discard one of the D12s from the pool going forward.This means that over the course of the mission you can encounter a maximum of 3 pack leaders, each revealed by a different Contact marker. The Pack Leader should be represented by either a different figure from the rest of the pack, or be marked with a suitable token. When first placed, the Pack Leader figure is always placed furthest from any troopers. For each pack leader, roll D6 on the table below to see what special behaviour it exhibits either in itself or its pack. Pack Leaders move and fight normally, except as explained below. D6 SUB-TYPE EFFECTS 1 Leader Acting as a focus, the leader ensures the foe will target your positions. When moving a Contact marker within 9”, a Chance die is not rolled, only an Aggression die. 2 Lancer Capable of launching a devastating attack at range. At the end of each move, if a trooper is in Line of Sight of the enemy, the Lancer will fire a dart at the nearest trooper visible.The dart hits on a D6 roll of 5+ (regardless of Combat Skill or cover), strikes with Damage 1 and ignores armor. Lancers will always attempt to move to Cover where they can see troopers, and will not enter close combat. 3 Caller Emits a signal to the rest of the brood. Each time the Caller is activated, roll 1D6. If the roll is higher than the number of Contacts on the table, place a Contact adjacent to the Caller. The Caller will attempt to move to the center of the table and then hide there. 4 Assassin A particularly lethal and virulent foe. Increase Damage and Combat Skill by 1. All attacks from the Assassin ignores armor. 5 Bruiser Especially large and tough. Increase Toughness by 1.The enemy receives a 4+ saving throw against all Hits, replacing its normal save (if any). 6 Driver Through strange means it urges the foe forward. All enemies that begin their activation within 6” of the Driver increase their movement by +1” for the round. 197 Mission generation Each battle round consists of four phases: 1. Quick Action phase 2. Enemy Action phase 3. Slow Action phase 4. Spawn phase To begin the round, roll a number of D6 equal to the number of your main characters and combat teams. For example, if you have 3 main character and 4 combat teams, you would roll 7 dice. Assign each of the dice to one of your main characters or Combat Teams. Each character or team receives only a single die. • Any character or team assigned a die equal to or below their Reaction score will act in the Quick Action phase. • Any character or team assigned a die over their Reaction score will act in the Slow Action phase. Note that regardless of the die rolls, all figures will get to act each round: The Reaction rolls determine what phase characters act in, not whether or not they act at all. All enemies will act in the Enemy Action phase. The Spawn phase is used to determine new arrivals, if the mission is using the Spawn Points mechanic (see p.199). The battle round ends when all figures on both sides have acted. Actions During a phase, player figures can act in any order desired. Enemy figures act in order of how far they are from player figures, starting with the closest, then working back.As the table can get quite busy, it is a good idea to have some tokens, beads, or small dice to keep track of who has already acted each round. When acting, a figure may Move first, and then perform a Combat Action such as firing a weapon or fighting a Brawl.A figure may forego either option but cannot perform them in reverse order. Stunned figures If a trooper is Stunned, they may either Move or perform a Combat Action, but cannot attempt both. Stunned enemies will remain in place and take no actions. After the figure has acted, remove 1 Stun marker from the figure. Figures can accumulate multiple Stun markers. Snap Fire Troopers that are eligible to act in the Quick Action phase may opt not to do so.This allows them to either fire when an opponent moves or to delay until the Slow Action phase. If a targeted opponent is Stunned while taking their movement, they lose the ability to take any other actions this round. Firing during an opponent’s move prevents the firing character from moving this round. Battle ROUND 198 Battle Round Characters who opted to hold their Quick Action for the opportunity of Snap Fire, but who did not find an opportunity to fire in the Enemy Action phase can either Move or Fire in the Slow Action phase, but not both. Enemies do not carry ranged weapons and will not use this option. Spawn Points During a mission, your troopers may uncover that the enemy is arriving from sectors beyond this one.This may be through vents and ducts, underground tunnels and more. Spawn Points represent locations that the enemy is using to converge on you. As part of mission creation, the mission creation system will dictate a Spawn Rating which determines how many Spawn Points will be revealed during that mission. If this rating is 0, this rule is not used. At the end of each round, proceed through the following steps: Step 1. Revealing Spawn Points If there are unrevealed Spawn Points, a single Spawn Point is now revealed and placed on the battlefield. Make a random direction roll in the center of the battlefield, and follow the indicated direction to the edge of the battlefield, placing the Spawn Point in the indicated location. Example: If you have a Spawn Rating of 2, a Spawn Point would be revealed at the ends of Rounds 1 and 2. Step 2. Increment countdowns This step will not apply in Round 1 of the game. Every Spawn Point that had a Countdown marker placed in a previous round (see step 3, below) lowers the countdown value of that marker by 1. If the score is reduced to 0, remove the Countdown marker and place a Contact marker on the Spawn Point. Step 3. Place countdowns Roll a D6 for every Spawn Point that does not have a Countdown marker by it (including any Spawn Points that just produced a Contact marker during Step 2). • On a 1-4, place a die with the indicated score next to the Spawn Point. • On a 5-6, no die is placed this round, but the Spawn Point will be checked again next round. Closing Down Spawn Points Troopers are trained to identify weak points in defenses that could leave them open to attack. A trooper may secure the location against enemy incursions, whether by reprogramming sentry guns, sealing bulkheads, laying mines in the passageway, restarting the laser barrier system, or similar means. As long as a trooper is not firing their weapon, and they are within 3” of a Spawn Point, they may attempt to do so: Roll 1D6+Savvy, with a 6+ indicating success, in which case Remove the Spawn Point and any Countdown marker from play. Only one trooper can work on a specific Spawn Point at a time,but a single friendly trooper within 1” of the worker may help,adding a +1 bonus to the roll (but likewise cannot fire while doing so). 199 Battle Round Enemy Movement Enemy figures move according to more simplified mechanics than troopers. Order of movement For determining the order of movement, start with the enemy figure nearest to a player figure (in absolute terms, ignoring terrain, walls, and similar), then the next nearest, etc. If two figures are equally distant, start on the left side of the table and work your way right. In most cases, the exact order of figure movement won’t be an issue. Movement direction For determining the direction of movement, the selected enemy moves at their full Speed towards the nearest trooper (proximity determined by the length of the path required to reach them, this time factoring in any obstacles that the enemy would have to move around) in an attempt to engage them in Brawling combat (see Brawling, page 177). Due to superior, alien senses, they are aware of the presence and position of every humanoid in the area, despite remote locations or closed doors. However, they ignore any trooper they have no viable path towards, for example due to Impassable terrain. Enemies may move through each other.This differs from troopers, who often wear bulky armor and equipment, and do not move as fluidly as aliens, who, in some cases, may be used to swarming over one another. Decision making If multiple viable paths exist,enemies will opt for the path that provides better protection from ranged attacks without impeding movement speed.However,enemies will not slow down their advance specifically to take cover. The enemy objective is always to enter Brawling combat where possible. Player vs player When overseen by a human player, enemies are not restricted to the normal “AI” rules in this chapter, but may move as the player sees fit. For example, they could skulk behind cover instead of advancing recklessly. Note that while Contact markers are not troops, they must move at random, even with a player controlling them. Nowhere to run There is no morale system in Bug Hunt: The enemies don’t stop coming until you kill them all.Whether they are part of a hive-mind that cares little for the survival of individuals or they are ravening space monsters, they will attack until they are all destroyed. Your troopers are in a desperate situation, and while they may be nervous, their training will keep them operating effectively. However, when an operation goes haywire, it may be time to make it out any which way you can. Escaping from the mission area on foot is extremely dangerous, but all troopers carry beacons that can be used to locate them later for pick up. A trooper may remove themselves from the rest of the battle by moving across any battlefield edge.Afterwards, they must roll on the Lost Marine table (see p.202) to determine their fate. Escaping in this way awards fewer Experience Points (although, of course, a dead trooper receives no points at all!) A note on “nearness” The method of calculating the nearness of trooper and enemy differs between order of movement and direction of movement.This is a necessary tabletop practicality to reduce the chance of the player moving a more distant figure to a closer location and accidentally moving them again later in the same round. 200 Battle Round Ending the Mission Your goal is to complete as many of your Objectives as possible. Two or more is considered a success for the purposes of awarding Experience Points after the battle. A Vital Objective counts as 2, while a Critical Objective counts as 3. Objectives are discussed on page 185. Note that if the mission had 4 or more signals initially (see sidebar, page 208), you must have investigated at least 2 before Evac. Failure to do so means your Objective total is reduced by 1. You may attempt to Evac before 2 signals have been investigated, but fewer XP will be awarded. We’re leaving! From Round 5 onwards, you can request Evac. Usually this is done once the mission is completed, but if things go haywire, you may have to get out of there. Select which character is making the request.They must be stationary, cannot be Stunned, and cannot fire a weapon or take another action. Roll 2D6, adding the number of Objectives that you have completed so far, including any packages you are holding. If the requesting character has Savvy +1 or greater, they are able to talk sense into high command: Add +1 to the roll. • On a total of 10+, Evac arrives at the end of the next battle round. • On a roll of 9 or less, you must roll again at the end of each battle round until the drop ship arrives. At the end of the round after that in which the successful roll was made, place a marker anywhere you choose.Any trooper within 3” of this marker (or moving within 3” of the marker while the drop ship remains) may be safely removed from the table. As the landing zone is extremely dangerous, Unity drop ship pilots do not loiter excessively in a combat area. If 3 rounds pass, the ship leaves and you must make another call. They are coming! The enemy can detect the blast of drop ship engines. Each time a drop ship arrives, the Priority is increased by +1 for the remainder of the mission (see page 187). Supporting fire During each round of hovering including the arrival round, the drop ship will fire in support of your squad. It has two Light Machine Guns, and measures its range and Line of Sight from the center of the drop ship marker. Resolve all shots with +1 Combat Skill. Drop ship weapons cannot malfunction. Pay the piper If you failed to complete any Objectives at all, you may face a court martial. Select the character that was in charge of the mission, and roll a D6. On a 1, they have been found guilty: Immediately remove them from the campaign. If you have them, you may pay 3 Reputation points to call in a favor and avoid this fate. 201 Battle Round After the mission is over,your troopers kick back for a few well-deserved cold beers while you fill out the reports.After all,the survivors may have learned a few new tricks! Post-Battle Sequence 1. Determine Casualties and Lost Marines 2. Update Completed Missions 3. Check for Mustering Out 4. Determine Reputation 5. Experience and Leveling 6. Roll for Operational Progress 7. Roll for Military Life 8. Check Entitlement to R&R 9. Ready for Another Campaign Turn This chapter will go through each step in the order they are accomplished each campaign turn. Step 1. Determine Casualties and Lost Marines For each character who became a casualty during this campaign turn,roll D100 on the table below,using the Casualty column to determine their injury.If a character exited the table via a battlefield edge,rather than through Evac,use the Lost Marine column instead.If a main character leaves the campaign because of injuries or any other reason,a new character is rolled up and arrives as a replacement. CASUALTY D100 LOST MARINE D100 RESULT EFFECTS CAMPAIGN TURNS IN SICK BAY 1-5 1-30 Gruesome fate Dead, and all carried equipment is lost – 6-15 – Death or crippling injury Dead or removed from campaign – 16-24 – Leg wound – 1D3 25-32 – Arm wound – 1D3 33-40 – Head wound – 1D3+1 41-48 – Torso wound – 1D3+1 49-80 – Minor injuries – 1 81-95 31-90 Knocked out – – 96-00 91-00 School of hard knocks Earn 1 Experience Point – POST-BATTLE 202 Post-Battle You may spend a point of Reputation to obtain advanced care, reducing Sick Bay time by 1 campaign turn.This can be done only once per character per campaign turn. Step 2. Update Completed Missions Each character has a Completed Missions tally indicating the number of missions they have undertaken. Completed Missions affects eligibility for certain training programs and affects whether your character Musters Out. Update this number by 1 if the character took the field. Characters in Sick Bay do not update their tally. Step 3. Check for Mustering Out For any character that increased their Completed Missions number, a check is made to see if they decide they’ve had their fill of bug hunting, and muster out to a new life. Consult the table below and roll 2D6. If you roll equal or above the Muster number, the character decides to leave the campaign and is removed from your roster. COMPLETED MISSIONS MUSTER OUT (2D6) 1-4 No chance 5-7 9+ if the character was a casualty or a lost marine. No chance otherwise. 8-9 9+ 10-11 8+ 12 7+ 13 6+ 14 5+ 15 Automatic Step 4. Determine Reputation Reputation can make a difference to your military career, opening all manner of doors. You track Reputation in the campaign as an expendable resource, which can be used to obtain various advantages and benefits. If you completed at least 2 Objectives in the last mission, you receive 1 point of Reputation automatically.Additionally, roll 1D6 for every Objective you completed (including the first 2). Every result of 5 or 6 grants you a further +1 to Reputation. Reputation is tracked by your group of characters as a single pool.When points are expended, they are removed. In reality, your Reputation does not diminish as such, but as you call in favors, you reach a limit of what people are willing to let you get away with. Oh man… and I was getting short! Troopers in Sick Bay cannot accompany your squad on missions, meaning your squad will go into the next battle short-handed.You may opt to retire an injured trooper if you like. If so, they are removed from your roster. Dead, removed, and retired troopers are replaced at this stage. Roll up a replacement character normally. 203 Post-Battle Step 5. Experience and Leveling Characters that participate in a battle are awarded Experience Points (XP). Became a casualty or lost marine +1 Character was removed from play by a method other than Evac. Not a casualty, 0-1 Objectives +2 Character Evac’ed and the team completed 0 or 1 Objectives. Not a casualty, 2+ Objectives +3 Character Evac’ed and the team completed 2 or more Objectives. Mission Priority was 4+ +1 Additional reward to all characters. MVP +1 Awarded to one character of choice. Track the accumulated Experience Points for each character. Experience Points earned can be cashed in to obtain an advance, based on the table below: ABILITY SCORE XP COST MAXIMUM PROFILE Reactions 8 4 Speed 6 8” Combat Skill 8 3 Toughness 8 5 Savvy 6 4 204 Post-Battle Step 6. Roll for Operational Progress Mostly, the war is far too big for one platoon to do anything about. Occasionally, however, your progress might affect how things are going, which in turn influenced your tabletop battles. Roll D100 once on the Operational Progress table below to determine how the overall campaign is affecting the war, and vice versa. All results from this table are cumulative until this particular operation is over. D100 OPERATIONAL PROGRESS NOTES Below 1 Operation is a disaster Time to pull out. Undertake one last mission where the enemy gets two extra Contact markers, then reset all results from this table. 1-10 Enemy counter-attacks Adjust future rolls on this table by -5. 11-20 Enemy is well entrenched For all future missions, the enemy gets an extra Contact marker. 21-40 Heavy pressure If you failed to achieve at least two Objectives last mission, adjust future rolls on this table by -5. 41-55 Stalemate The front line isn’t moving. No effect. 56-75 Gaining ground If you achieved at least 2 Objectives last mission, adjust future rolls on this table by +5. 76-80 Vital operation Pick a random main character that participated in the last mission.Award them +1 XP for each Objective you completed, as it was vital to the war effort. 81-90 Break through You’ve pushed the enemy back in critical sectors. Adjust future rolls on this table by +5. 91-100 Crippling blow A decisive strike has crippled enemy capabilities. Claim +1 Support roll in future missions. Adjust future rolls on this table by +5. Above 100 Time to hold a parade! You’ve won! The planet is secure and free of enemy scum. Gain +1 Reputation and take R&R. Reset all modifiers to this table. 205 Post-Battle Step 7. Roll for Military Life Pick a random main character using any appropriate method (including characters in Sick Bay), then roll once on the Military Life table below to see what is going on in the barracks. D100 MILITARY LIFE 1-5 You got in a fight. Roll 1D6+Combat Skill. On a roll below a 5, spend next campaign turn in Sick Bay. 6-10 You did a task for an officer. Adjust Reputation by +1 point. 11-15 You have a friend in the Intel Corps. Modify Priority of next mission by +/- 1. 16-20 You spend time in the Brig. Adjust Reputation by -1 point and miss the next mission. 21-25 You’re feeling unmotivated. Lose 2 unspent XP. 26-30 Time tinkering. Select a personal weapon and increase range by +1”. 31-35 Time flies when you’re… just playing cards in barracks. 36-40 You received a recommendation. Next Special Assignments roll is at +2. 41-45 You received a repriman.You cannot take a Special Assignment next campaign turn. 46-50 Feeling pretty fit. Reduce Sick Bay time by 1 campaign turn. If you didn’t need Sick Bay, add +1 XP. 51-55 Evening classes: Earn +1 XP. 56-60 You got sick. Spend next campaign turn in Sick Bay. 61-65 You’re detached on special duties.You cannot participate in the next mission, but you receive a bonus roll on the Special Assignments table. 66-70 You’re getting in shape, at least.You may immediately raise Speed by +1 for a cost of 5 XP. 71-75 You spend time on the range.You may immediately raise Combat Skill by +1 for a cost of 5 XP. 76-80 You made a friend. Hurray! 81-85 A Dear John letter. Ouch! 86-90 You cash in a favor. Spend 0-2 Reputation, and for each point you earn 2 XP or a +1 bonus when rolling for a Special Assignment. 91-95 You did something stupid. Lose 1 Reputation. 96-00 You’re being noticed by the brass. Gain 1 Reputation. Step 8. Check Entitlement to R&R If you have undertaken 4 missions in the current operation, your crew is entitled to a bit of R&R: Cross off one extra campaign turn in Sick Bay for all characters and make an additional roll on the Military Life table. Once R&R has been taken, you must play out another 4 missions before you are entitled to R&R again.You can pay 1 Reputation point to take R&R whenever you please (by being assigned to light duties back at headquarters). Step 9. Ready for Another Campaign Turn With all eight Post-battle steps completed, you are ready to take on a new campaign turn and mission. Good luck! 206